David E. Losada, Javier Parapar, Alvaro Barreiro, A rank fusion approach based on score distributions for prioritizing relevance assessments in information retrieval evaluation, Information Fusion, Volume 39, January 2018, Pages 56-71, ISSN 1566-2535, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2017.04.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1566253516301786)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper we study how to prioritize relevance assessments in the process of creating an Information Retrieval test collection. A test collection consists of a set of queries, a document collection, and a set of relevance assessments. For each query, only a sample of documents from the collection can be manually assessed for relevance. Multiple retrieval strategies are typically used to obtain such sample of documents. And rank fusion plays a fundamental role in creating the sample by combining multiple search results. We propose effective rank fusion models that are adapted to the characteristics of this evaluation task. Our models are based on the distribution of retrieval scores supplied by the search systems and our experiments show that this formal approach leads to natural and competitive solutions when compared to state of the art methods. We also demonstrate the benefits of including pseudo-relevance evidence into the estimation of the score distribution models.
Keywords: Rank fusion; Information retrieval; Evaluation; Pooling; Score distributions; Pseudo-relevance

Luca Piras, Giorgio Giacinto, Information fusion in content based image retrieval: A comprehensive overview, Information Fusion, Volume 37, September 2017, Pages 50-60, ISSN 1566-2535, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2017.01.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1566253517300076)
Abstract: Abstract
An ever increasing part of communication between persons involve the use of pictures, due to the cheap availability of powerful cameras on smartphones, and the cheap availability of storage space. The rising popularity of social networking applications such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and of instant messaging applications, such as WhatsApp, WeChat, is the clear evidence of this phenomenon, due to the opportunity of sharing in real-time a pictorial representation of the context each individual is living in. The media rapidly exploited this phenomenon, using the same channel, either to publish their reports, or to gather additional information on an event through the community of users. While the real-time use of images is managed through metadata associated with the image (i.e., the timestamp, the geolocation, tags, etc.), their retrieval from an archive might be far from trivial, as an image bears a rich semantic content that goes beyond the description provided by its metadata. It turns out that after more than 20 years of research on Content-Based Image Retrieval (CBIR), the giant increase in the number and variety of images available in digital format is challenging the research community. It is quite easy to see that any approach aiming at facing such challenges must rely on different image representations that need to be conveniently fused in order to adapt to the subjectivity of image semantics. This paper offers a journey through the main information fusion ingredients that a recipe for the design of a CBIR system should include to meet the demanding needs of users.
Keywords: Information fusion; Content based image retrieval

Obada Alhabashneh, Rahat Iqbal, Faiyaz Doctor, Anne James, Fuzzy rule based profiling approach for enterprise information seeking and retrieval, Information Sciences, Volumes 394–395, July 2017, Pages 18-37, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2016.12.040.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025516322605)
Abstract: Abstract
With the exponential growth of information available on the Internet and various organisational intranets there is a need for profile based information seeking and retrieval (IS&amp;R) systems. These systems should be able to support users with their context-aware information needs. This paper presents a new approach for enterprise IS&amp;R systems using fuzzy logic to develop task, user and document profiles to model user information seeking behaviour. Relevance feedback was captured from real users engaged in IS&amp;R tasks. The feedback was used to develop a linear regression model for predicting document relevancy based on implicit relevance indicators. Fuzzy relevance profiles were created using Term Frequency and Inverse Document Frequency (TF-IDF) analysis for the successful user queries. Fuzzy rule based summarisation was used to integrate the three profiles into a unified index reflecting the semantic weight of the query terms related to the task, user and document. The unified index was used to select the most relevant documents and experts related to the query topic. The overall performance of the system was evaluated based on standard precision and recall metrics which show significant improvements in retrieving relevant documents in response to user queries.
Keywords: Enterprise search; Enterprise information seeking &amp; retrieval; Personalised information retrieval; Fuzzy logic, Expert search; Rulebased summarisation; Fuzzy profiling

David E. Losada, Javier Parapar, Alvaro Barreiro, Multi-armed bandits for adjudicating documents in pooling-based evaluation of information retrieval systems, Information Processing & Management, Volume 53, Issue 5, September 2017, Pages 1005-1025, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2017.04.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457316305660)
Abstract: Abstract
Evaluating Information Retrieval systems is crucial to making progress in search technologies. Evaluation is often based on assembling reference collections consisting of documents, queries and relevance judgments done by humans. In large-scale environments, exhaustively judging relevance becomes infeasible. Instead, only a pool of documents is judged for relevance. By selectively choosing documents from the pool we can optimize the number of judgments required to identify a given number of relevant documents. We argue that this iterative selection process can be naturally modeled as a reinforcement learning problem and propose innovative and formal adjudication methods based on multi-armed bandits. Casting document judging as a multi-armed bandit problem is not only theoretically appealing, but also leads to highly effective adjudication methods. Under this bandit allocation framework, we consider stationary and non-stationary models and propose seven new document adjudication methods (five stationary methods and two non-stationary variants). Our paper also reports a series of experiments performed to thoroughly compare our new methods against current adjudication methods. This comparative study includes existing methods designed for pooling-based evaluation and existing methods designed for metasearch. Our experiments show that our theoretically grounded adjudication methods can substantially minimize the assessment effort.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Evaluation; Pooling; Reinforcement learning; Multi-armed bandits

Mourad Sarrouti, Said Ouatik El Alaoui, A passage retrieval method based on probabilistic information retrieval model and UMLS concepts in biomedical question answering, Journal of Biomedical Informatics, Volume 68, April 2017, Pages 96-103, ISSN 1532-0464, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2017.03.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046417300503)
Abstract: AbstractBackground and Objective
Passage retrieval, the identification of top-ranked passages that may contain the answer for a given biomedical question, is a crucial component for any biomedical question answering (QA) system. Passage retrieval in open-domain QA is a longstanding challenge widely studied over the last decades. However, it still requires further efforts in biomedical QA. In this paper, we present a new biomedical passage retrieval method based on Stanford CoreNLP sentence/passage length, probabilistic information retrieval (IR) model and UMLS concepts.
Methods
In the proposed method, we first use our document retrieval system based on PubMed search engine and UMLS similarity to retrieve relevant documents to a given biomedical question. We then take the abstracts from the retrieved documents and use Stanford CoreNLP for sentence splitter to make a set of sentences, i.e., candidate passages. Using stemmed words and UMLS concepts as features for the BM25 model, we finally compute the similarity scores between the biomedical question and each of the candidate passages and keep the N top-ranked ones.
Results
Experimental evaluations performed on large standard datasets, provided by the BioASQ challenge, show that the proposed method achieves good performances compared with the current state-of-the-art methods. The proposed method significantly outperforms the current state-of-the-art methods by an average of 6.84% in terms of mean average precision (MAP).
Conclusion
We have proposed an efficient passage retrieval method which can be used to retrieve relevant passages in biomedical QA systems with high mean average precision.
Keywords: Biomedical question answering system; Biomedical passage retieval; Probabilistic information retrieval model; Unified medical language system; Natural language processing; Biomedical informatics

Deepanwita Datta, Shubham Varma, Ravindranath Chowdary C., Sanjay K. Singh, Multimodal Retrieval using Mutual Information based Textual Query Reformulation, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 68, February 2017, Pages 81-92, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2016.09.039.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417416305292)
Abstract: Abstract
Multimodal Retrieval is a well-established approach for image retrieval. Usually, images are accompanied by text caption along with associated documents describing the image. Textual query expansion as a form of enhancing image retrieval is a relatively less explored area. In this paper, we first study the effect of expanding textual query on both image and its associated text retrieval. Our study reveals that judicious expansion of textual query through keyphrase extraction can lead to better results, either in terms of text-retrieval or both image and text-retrieval. To establish this, we use two well-known keyphrase extraction techniques based on tf-idf and KEA. While query expansion results in increased retrieval efficiency, it is imperative that the expansion be semantically justified. So, we propose a graph-based keyphrase extraction model that captures the relatedness between words in terms of both mutual information and relevance feedback. Most of the existing works have stressed on bridging the semantic gap by using textual and visual features, either in combination or individually. The way these text and image features are combined determines the efficacy of any retrieval. For this purpose, we adopt Fisher-LDA to adjudge the appropriate weights for each modality. This provides us with an intelligent decision-making process favoring the feature set to be infused into the final query. Our proposed algorithm is shown to supersede the previously mentioned keyphrase extraction algorithms for query expansion significantly. A rigorous set of experiments performed on ImageCLEF-2011 Wikipedia Retrieval task dataset validates our claim that capturing the semantic relation between words through Mutual Information followed by expansion of a textual query using relevance feedback can simultaneously enhance both text and image retrieval.
Keywords: Multimodal Retrieval; Query Reformulation; Keyphrase Extraction; Mutual Information; Fisher-LDA

Ying Jiang, Yanjiang Wang, Psychologically inspired visual information storage and retrieval modeling for multiclass image classification, Neurocomputing, Available online 8 February 2017, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.09.126.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217302515)
Abstract: Abstract
The computer vision research aims to enable the computers to recognize visual images as easily as human. Studies have shown that human could segregate target from its surrounding environment, which is intimately associated with the brain memory mechanism. However, it is not quite clear about how the visual images are stored and retrieved in the human brain. In this paper, we propose a psychologically visual information storage and retrieval model (PVISRM) based on sparse coding and probabilistic decision theory. First, the dense scale invariant feature transform (SIFT) algorithm is applied to extract the features of visual images and then the extracted features are represented by sparse coding. In the storage procedure, each component of the feature vector is correctly copied with certain probability generated by an exponential distribution. For retrieval, the likelihood ratio between the probe image feature vector and that of each studied image is calculated based on probabilistic theory. Then the category likelihood ratio between the probe image and each category is obtained by adding the ratio values of all images belonging to the same category. Finally, the Bayesian decision rule for image classification is presented. Experimental results show that the proposed PVISRM model can obtain good classification performance and outperforms the SVM approach.
Keywords: SIFT; Sparse coding; Psychological memory modeling; Information storage; Information retrieval; Image classification

Sergey Kulik, Factographic Information Retrieval for Communication in Multicultural Society, Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, Volume 236, 14 December 2016, Pages 29-33, ISSN 1877-0428, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2016.12.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S187704281631641X)
Abstract: Abstract
A factographic information retrieval with human involvement which consists of two stages is given detailed consideration in this paper. In the first stage, the retrieval without direct human involvement is implemented. In the second stage, the retrieval assumes the human involvement. This retrieval includes a pattern recognition algorithm, and they are implemented for retrieval only one document among the variety of similar documents. An analytical model of the retrieval block is developed. This model is presented by effectiveness indicator: average length of the recommendatory list provided by the retrieval block enabling the human operator to take the final decision.
Keywords: Information retrieval; communication; recommendatory list; pattern recognition; factographic information; effectiveness

Stefania Marrara, Gabriella Pasi, Marco Viviani, Aggregation operators in Information Retrieval, Fuzzy Sets and Systems, Available online 30 December 2016, ISSN 0165-0114, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fss.2016.12.018.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165011416304596)
Abstract: Abstract
Information Retrieval is a complex task, which deals with both the subjectivity related to the user's needs and the uncertainty and vagueness that characterize the retrieval process. For this reason, deciding to which extent a document is relevant to a user's needs is not easy, and it strongly depends on several dimensions such as topicality, novelty, user's context, and so on. One of the most straightforward ways to interpret this activity is as a Multi-Criteria Decision Making (MCDM) problem, in which the choice of appropriate aggregation operators can play an important role in various tasks related to, or characterizing the IR process. This article aims to provide a presentation of the main approaches that in the literature have made use of aggregation operators in Information Retrieval.
Keywords: Aggregation operators; Information Retrieval; Indexing; Query languages; Multidimensional relevance assessment; Metasearch; OWA operators; Copulas; Choquet integrals

Robert Beinert, Gerlind Plonka, Enforcing uniqueness in one-dimensional phase retrieval by additional signal information in time domain, Applied and Computational Harmonic Analysis, Available online 4 January 2017, ISSN 1063-5203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acha.2016.12.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1063520316300975)
Abstract: Abstract
Considering the ambiguousness of the discrete-time phase retrieval problem to recover a signal from its Fourier intensities, one can ask the question: what additional information about the unknown signal do we need to select the correct solution within the large solution set? Based on a characterization of the occurring ambiguities, we investigate different a priori conditions in order to reduce the number of ambiguities or even to receive a unique solution. Particularly, if we have access to additional magnitudes of the unknown signal in the time domain, we can show that almost all signals with finite support can be uniquely recovered. Moreover, we prove that an analogous result can be obtained by exploiting additional phase information.
Keywords: Discrete one-dimensional phase retrieval for complex signals; Compact support; Additional magnitude and phase information in time domain

Shenlu Zhong, Mengjiao Li, Xiajie Tang, Weiqing He, Xiaogang Wang, Information verification and encryption based on phase retrieval with sparsity constraints and optical inference, Optics and Lasers in Engineering, Volume 88, January 2017, Pages 214-220, ISSN 0143-8166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optlaseng.2016.08.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0143816616301890)
Abstract: Abstract
A novel optical information verification and encryption method is proposed based on inference principle and phase retrieval with sparsity constraints. In this method, a target image is encrypted into two phase-only masks (POMs), which comprise sparse phase data used for verification. Both of the two POMs need to be authenticated before being applied for decrypting. The target image can be optically reconstructed when the two authenticated POMs are Fourier transformed and convolved by the correct decryption key, which is also generated in encryption process. No holographic scheme is involved in the proposed optical verification and encryption system and there is also no problem of information disclosure in the two authenticable POMs. Numerical simulation results demonstrate the validity and good performance of this new proposed method.
Keywords: Optical encryption; Information authentication; Phase retrieval; Phase encoding

Zengpeng Li, Chunguang Ma, Ding Wang, Gang Du, Toward single-server private information retrieval protocol via learning with errors, Journal of Information Security and Applications, Available online 13 December 2016, ISSN 2214-2126, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2016.11.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214212616301363)
Abstract: Abstract
At FOCS2011 Brakerski and Vaikuntanathan proposed a single-server LWE-based private information retrieval (abbreviated as PIR) protocol with a security reduction to hard standard lattice problems and nearly optimal communication complexity. However, Brakerski just described a generic PIR protocol that utilized a somewhat homomorphic encryption and an arbitrary symmetric encryption as building blocks, he did not instantiate the generic construction. In this work, we first modify Brakerski's construction without the evaluating key and construct a new PIR model. Moreover, we instantiate our new model via matrix FHE first proposed by Ryo et al. at PKC2015 and vector symmetric encryption scheme proposed in this work as building block. Then we optimize the Response operations and several other aspects of the scheme.
Keywords: Private information retrieval; Homomorphic encryption; Multi-bit symmetric encryption; Learning with errors

Larbi Guezouli, Hassane Essafi, CAS-based information retrieval in semi-structured documents: CASISS model, Journal of Innovation in Digital Ecosystems, Volume 3, Issue 2, December 2016, Pages 155-162, ISSN 2352-6645, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jides.2016.11.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S235266451630027X)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper aims to address the assessment the similarity between documents or pieces of documents. For this purpose we have developed CASISS (CAlculation of SImilarity of Semi-Structured documents) method to quantify how two given texts are similar. The method can be employed in wide area of applications including content reuse detection which is a hot and challenging topic. It can be also used to increase the accuracy of the information retrieval process by taking into account not only the presence of query terms in the given document (Content Only search — CO) but also the topology (position continuity) of these terms (based on Content And Structure Search — CAS). Tracking the origin of the information in social media, copy right management, plagiarism detection, social media mining and monitoring, digital forensic are among other applications require tools such as CASISS to measure, with a high accuracy, the content overlap between two documents.

CASISS identify elements of semi-structured documents using elements descriptors. Each semi-structured document is pre-processed before the extraction of a set of elements descriptors, which characterize the content of the elements.
Keywords: CASISS; Information retrieval; Semi-structured information processing

Anderson Uilian Kauer, Viviane P. Moreira, Using information retrieval for sentiment polarity prediction, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 61, 1 November 2016, Pages 282-289, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2016.05.038.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417416302627)
Abstract: Abstract
Social networks such as Twitter are used by millions of people who express their opinions on a variety of topics. Consequently, these media are constantly being examined by sentiment analysis systems which aim at classifying the posts as positive or negative. Given the variety of topics discussed and the short length of the posts, the standard approach of using the words as features for machine learning algorithms results in sparse vectors. In this work, we propose using features derived from the ranking generated by an Information Retrieval System in response to a query consisting of the post that needs to be classified. Our system can be fully automatic, has only 24 features, and does not depend on expensive resources. Experiments on real datasets have shown that a classifier that relies solely on these features outperforms established baselines and can reach accuracies comparable to the state-of-the-art approaches which are more costly.
Keywords: Sentiment analysis; Opinion mining; Information retrieval; Polarity classification; Twitter

Laure Soulier, Lynda Tamine, Chirag Shah, MineRank: Leveraging users’ latent roles for unsupervised collaborative information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 52, Issue 6, November 2016, Pages 1122-1141, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2016.05.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457316301145)
Abstract: Abstract
Research on collaborative information retrieval (CIR) has shown positive impacts of collaboration on retrieval effectiveness in the case of complex and/or exploratory tasks. The synergic effect of accomplishing something greater than the sum of its individual components is reached through the gathering of collaborators’ complementary skills. However, these approaches often lack the consideration that collaborators might refine their skills and actions throughout the search session, and that a flexible system mediation guided by collaborators’ behaviors should dynamically adapt to this situation in order to optimize search effectiveness. In this article, we propose a new unsupervised collaborative ranking algorithm which leverages collaborators’ actions for (1) mining their latent roles in order to extract their complementary search behaviors; and (2) ranking documents with respect to the latent role of collaborators. Experiments using two user studies with respectively 25 and 10 pairs of collaborators demonstrate the benefit of such an unsupervised method driven by collaborators’ behaviors throughout the search session. Also, a qualitative analysis of the identified latent role is proposed to explain an over-learning noticed in one of the datasets.
Keywords: Collaborative information retrieval; Unsupervised role mining; Latent role; User study

Roberto Pérez-Rodríguez, Luis Anido-Rifón, Miguel Gómez-Carballa, Marcos Mouriño-García, Architecture of a concept-based information retrieval system for educational resources, Science of Computer Programming, Volume 129, 1 November 2016, Pages 72-91, ISSN 0167-6423, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2016.05.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642316300314)
Abstract: Abstract
Internet searches that occur in learning contexts are very different in nature from traditional “lookup” or “known item” searches: students usually perform searches to gather information about or master a certain topic, and the search engine is used as an aid in the exploration of a domain of knowledge. This paper presents SDE (Search Discover Explore), an exploratory search engine for educational resources that was built on top of the knowledge provided by Wikipedia: the set of its articles provides the search space (the set of topics that users can investigate), and the relationships between Wikipedia articles inform the suggestions that the search engine provides to students to go deeper in the exploration of a certain domain of knowledge. SDE indexes several hundreds of thousands of educational resources from high-quality Web sources, such as Project Gutenberg and Open Education Europe, among many others. This paper also reports the results of the evaluation of SDE by experts in Technology Enhanced Learning in several workshops that took place across Europe in the context of the European FP7 project iTEC. These results enable us to conclude that the exploratory search paradigm, making use of knowledge mined from Wikipedia, is a very promising approach for building information retrieval systems to be used in learning contexts.
Keywords: Exploratory search; Information retrieval; Bag-of-concepts (BoC) representation; Software architecture

Carlos Anastasiades, Tobias Schmid, Jürg Weber, Torsten Braun, Information-centric content retrieval for delay-tolerant networks, Computer Networks, Volume 107, Part 2, 9 October 2016, Pages 194-207, ISSN 1389-1286, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2016.03.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128616300718)
Abstract: Abstract
The shift from host-centric to information-centric networking (ICN) promises seamless communication in mobile networks. However, most existing works either consider well-connected networks with high node density or introduce modifications to ICN message processing for delay-tolerant networking (DTN). In this work, we present agent-based content retrieval, which provides information-centric DTN support as an application module without modifications to ICN message processing. This enables flexible interoperability in changing environments. If no content source can be found via wireless multi-hop routing, requesters may exploit the mobility of neighbor nodes (called agents) by delegating content retrieval to them. Agents that receive a delegation and move closer to content sources can retrieve data and return it back to requesters. We show that agent-based content retrieval may be even more efficient in scenarios where multi-hop communication is possible. Furthermore, we show that broadcast communication may not be necessarily the best option since dynamic unicast requests have little overhead and can better exploit short contact times between nodes (no broadcast delays required for duplicate suppression).
Keywords: Information-centric; Delay-tolerant; Agent-based content retrieval; Wireless routing; DTN; CCN

Felipe N. Flores, Viviane P. Moreira, Assessing the impact of Stemming Accuracy on Information Retrieval – A multilingual perspective, Information Processing & Management, Volume 52, Issue 5, September 2016, Pages 840-854, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2016.03.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457316300358)
Abstract: Abstract
The quality of stemming algorithms is typically measured in two different ways: (i) how accurately they map the variant forms of a word to the same stem; or (ii) how much improvement they bring to Information Retrieval systems. In this article, we evaluate various stemming algorithms, in four languages, in terms of accuracy and in terms of their aid to Information Retrieval. The aim is to assess whether the most accurate stemmers are also the ones that bring the biggest gain in Information Retrieval. Experiments in English, French, Portuguese, and Spanish show that this is not always the case, as stemmers with higher error rates yield better retrieval quality. As a byproduct, we also identified the most accurate stemmers and the best for Information Retrieval purposes.
Keywords: Stemming; Information Retrieval; Evaluation; Multilingual

Yanshan Wang, Stephen Wu, Dingcheng Li, Saeed Mehrabi, Hongfang Liu, A Part-Of-Speech term weighting scheme for biomedical information retrieval, Journal of Biomedical Informatics, Volume 63, October 2016, Pages 379-389, ISSN 1532-0464, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2016.08.026.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046416301125)
Abstract: Abstract
In the era of digitalization, information retrieval (IR), which retrieves and ranks documents from large collections according to users’ search queries, has been popularly applied in the biomedical domain. Building patient cohorts using electronic health records (EHRs) and searching literature for topics of interest are some IR use cases. Meanwhile, natural language processing (NLP), such as tokenization or Part-Of-Speech (POS) tagging, has been developed for processing clinical documents or biomedical literature. We hypothesize that NLP can be incorporated into IR to strengthen the conventional IR models. In this study, we propose two NLP-empowered IR models, POS-BoW and POS-MRF, which incorporate automatic POS-based term weighting schemes into bag-of-word (BoW) and Markov Random Field (MRF) IR models, respectively. In the proposed models, the POS-based term weights are iteratively calculated by utilizing a cyclic coordinate method where golden section line search algorithm is applied along each coordinate to optimize the objective function defined by mean average precision (MAP). In the empirical experiments, we used the data sets from the Medical Records track in Text REtrieval Conference (TREC) 2011 and 2012 and the Genomics track in TREC 2004. The evaluation on TREC 2011 and 2012 Medical Records tracks shows that, for the POS-BoW models, the mean improvement rates for IR evaluation metrics, MAP, bpref, and P@10, are 10.88%, 4.54%, and 3.82%, compared to the BoW models; and for the POS-MRF models, these rates are 13.59%, 8.20%, and 8.78%, compared to the MRF models. Additionally, we experimentally verify that the proposed weighting approach is superior to the simple heuristic and frequency based weighting approaches, and validate our POS category selection. Using the optimal weights calculated in this experiment, we tested the proposed models on the TREC 2004 Genomics track and obtained average of 8.63% and 10.04% improvement rates for POS-BoW and POS-MRF, respectively. These significant improvements verify the effectiveness of leveraging POS tagging for biomedical IR tasks.
Keywords: Biomedical information retrieval; Natural language processing; Part-Of-Speech; Bag-of-word; Markov random field

Xuan Lv, Nora M. El-Gohary, Enhanced context-based document relevance assessment and ranking for improved information retrieval to support environmental decision making, Advanced Engineering Informatics, Volume 30, Issue 4, October 2016, Pages 737-750, ISSN 1474-0346, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2016.08.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474034616302658)
Abstract: Abstract
There is a need for enhanced context-based document relevance assessment and ranking to facilitate the retrieval of more relevant information for supporting environmental decision making. This paper proposes a new context-based relevance assessment method, which allows for enhanced context representation and context-based document relevance recognition through: (1) a context-aware and deep semantic concept indexing approach, and (2) a deep and semantically-sensitive relevance estimation approach. The proposed relevance assessment method was integrated into two widely-used document ranking models [vector space model (VSM) and statistical language model (SLM)], resulting in two improved ranking methods: (1) a context-enhanced VSM-based method, and (2) a context-enhanced SLM-based method. The two context-enhanced document ranking methods were evaluated in retrieving webpages that are relevant to transportation project environmental review. The two context-enhanced methods were compared with each other and with their provenance methods (i.e., original VSM and SLM) in terms of mean precision (MP) and mean average precision (MAP). The context-enhanced VSM-based method outperformed the context-enhanced SLM-based method on every metric. It achieved 48% MAP, 79% MP at the top 10 retrieved documents, and over 65% MP at the top 50 retrieved documents, on the testing data. It also showed significant improvement over the state-of-the-art keyword-based VSM method.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Context-based relevance assessment; Context-enhanced document ranking; Vector space model; Statistical language model; Project environmental review

Kripabandhu Ghosh, Anirban Chakraborty, Swapan Kumar Parui, Prasenjit Majumder, Improving Information Retrieval Performance on OCRed Text in the Absence of Clean Text Ground Truth, Information Processing & Management, Volume 52, Issue 5, September 2016, Pages 873-884, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2016.03.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030645731630036X)
Abstract: Abstract
OCR errors in text harm information retrieval performance. Much research has been reported on modelling and correction of Optical Character Recognition (OCR) errors. Most of the prior work employ language dependent resources or training texts in studying the nature of errors. However, not much research has been reported that focuses on improving retrieval performance from erroneous text in the absence of training data. We propose a novel approach for detecting OCR errors and improving retrieval performance from the erroneous corpus in a situation where training samples are not available to model errors. In this paper we propose a method that automatically identifies erroneous term variants in the noisy corpus, which are used for query expansion, in the absence of clean text. We employ an effective combination of contextual information and string matching techniques. Our proposed approach automatically identifies the erroneous variants of query terms and consequently leads to improvement in retrieval performance through query expansion. Our proposed approach does not use any training data or any language specific resources like thesaurus for identification of error variants. It also does not expend any knowledge about the language except that the word delimiter is blank space. We have tested our approach on erroneous Bangla (Bengali in English) and Hindi FIRE collections, and also on TREC Legal IIT CDIP and TREC 5 Confusion track English corpora. Our proposed approach has achieved statistically significant improvements over the state-of-the-art baselines on most of the datasets.
Keywords: Information Retrieval; OCR error; Word co-occurrence

Peggy Nzomo, Isola Ajiferuke, Liwen Vaughan, Pamela McKenzie, Multilingual Information Retrieval &amp; Use: Perceptions and Practices Amongst Bi/Multilingual Academic Users, The Journal of Academic Librarianship, Volume 42, Issue 5, September 2016, Pages 495-502, ISSN 0099-1333, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acalib.2016.06.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0099133316300969)
Abstract: Abstract
In recent years, technological advancements in Natural Language Processing (NLP) such as machine translation have made it possible for users to access information in multiple languages, even those in which they may not be proficient. The current study investigated the information searching behavior of bi/multilingual academic users, and examined their practices and perceptions regarding searching for information on the Internet and on electronic databases. Bi/multilingual students were recruited from a Canadian university and a community college both located in London, Ontario. A total of 250 (N = 250) students completed a web survey through a link that was embedded in an invitation e-mail. Results showed that though advancements in NLP technology have alleviated some of the linguistic related challenges that some bi/multilingual academic users face while searching for information online, language barriers do still exist for some especially at the query formulation stage. The study found that an increase in Multilingual Information Access (MLIA) tools on electronic databases coupled with appropriate information literacy instruction could be helpful in further alleviating language barriers.
Keywords: Multilingual information retrieval; Multilingual information access tools; User perception; User experience; International students; Bi/multilingual users

Peizhong Liu, Jing-Ming Guo, Kosin Chamnongthai, Heri Prasetyo, Fusion of color histogram and LBP-based features for texture image retrieval and classification, Information Sciences, Volume 390, June 2017, Pages 95-111, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2017.01.025.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025517301159)
Abstract: Abstract
The Local Binary Pattern (LBP) operator and its variants play an important role as the image feature extractor in the textural image retrieval and classification. The LBP-based operator extracts the textural information of an image by considering the neighboring pixel values. A single or join histogram can be derived from the LBP code which can be used as an image feature descriptor in some applications. However, the LBP-based feature is not a good candidate in capturing the color information of an image, making it is less suitable for measuring the similarity of color images with rich color information. This work overcomes this problem by adding an additional color feature, namely Color Information Feature (CIF), along with the LBP-based feature in the image retrieval and classification systems. The CIF and LBP-based feature adequately represent the color and texture features. As documented in the experimental result, the hybrid CIF and LBP-based feature presents a promising result and outperforms the existing methods over several image databases. Thus, it can be a very competitive candidate in retrieval and classification application.
Keywords: Color information feature; Image retrieval; Image classification; Local binary pattern

Shreelekha Pandey, Pritee Khanna, Content-based image retrieval embedded with agglomerative clustering built on information loss, Computers & Electrical Engineering, Volume 54, August 2016, Pages 506-521, ISSN 0045-7906, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2016.04.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790616300660)
Abstract: Abstract
This work presents a Content-Based Image Retrieval (CBIR) system embedded with a clustering technique to retrieve images similar to query image. This cluster-based CBIR system utilizes an agglomerative hierarchical clustering to group images into visually separable clusters within the dataset. The proposed clustering does not utilize any background data either related to the semantics of images or the number of clusters formed. At each intermediate step, a representative image is chosen to denote a cluster. This image represents all images in a cluster and hence, there is some loss of information, which is tracked and combined with proportional reduction in error method to automatically get the number of clusters. Experimental results obtained show the efficiency of the clustering algorithm. Image retrieval results are also presented to show efficacy of the developed system in retrieving semantically more similar images.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Hierarchical agglomerative clustering; Loss of information; Cluster validity measures

Jesús Vilares, Miguel A. Alonso, Yerai Doval, Manuel Vilares, Studying the effect and treatment of misspelled queries in Cross-Language Information Retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 52, Issue 4, July 2016, Pages 646-657, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2015.12.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457315001478)
Abstract: Abstract
In contrast with their monolingual counterparts, little attention has been paid to the effects that misspelled queries have on the performance of Cross-Language Information Retrieval (CLIR) systems. The present work makes a first attempt to fill this gap by extending our previous work on monolingual retrieval in order to study the impact that the progressive addition of misspellings to input queries has, this time, on the output of CLIR systems. Two approaches for dealing with this problem are analyzed in this paper. Firstly, the use of automatic spelling correction techniques for which, in turn, we consider two algorithms: the first one for the correction of isolated words and the second one for a correction based on the linguistic context of the misspelled word. The second approach to be studied is the use of character n-grams both as index terms and translation units, seeking to take advantage of their inherent robustness and language-independence. All these approaches have been tested on a from-Spanish-to-English CLIR system, that is, Spanish queries on English documents. Real, user-generated spelling errors have been used under a methodology that allows us to study the effectiveness of the different approaches to be tested and their behavior when confronted with different error rates. The results obtained show the great sensitiveness of classic word-based approaches to misspelled queries, although spelling correction techniques can mitigate such negative effects. On the other hand, the use of character n-grams provides great robustness against misspellings.
Keywords: Misspelled queries; Cross-Language Information Retrieval; Machine translation; Spelling correction; Character n-grams

Xenophon Evangelopoulos, Victor Giannakouris-Salalidis, Lazaros Iliadis, Christos Makris, Yannis Plegas, Antonia Plerou, Spyros Sioutas, Evaluating information retrieval using document popularity: An implementation on MapReduce, Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, Volume 51, May 2016, Pages 16-23, ISSN 0952-1976, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2016.01.023.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197616000270)
Abstract: Abstract
Over the last few years, one major research direction of information retrieval includes user behaviour prediction. For that reason many models have been proposed aiming at the accurate evaluation of information retrieval systems and the best prediction of web search users׳ behaviour. In this paper we propose a new evaluation metric for information retrieval systems which employs two relevance factors; a relevance judgement grade and a popularity grade that represents users׳ vote for a document. We show that this new metric performs better than other evaluation metrics when expressing user behaviour. Moreover, in order to test the performance of our metric on different and scalable ranking algorithms, we develop a pairwise text similarity algorithm using cosine similarity, implemented on the MapReduce model, and then perform experiments on rankings generated by the algorithm.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Evaluation; Metrics; User behaviour; MapReduce; Cosine similarity

Carlos J. Rodriguez-Ortiz, Federico Bermúdez-Rattoni, Determinants to trigger memory reconsolidation: The role of retrieval and updating information, Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, Available online 21 December 2016, ISSN 1074-7427, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nlm.2016.12.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S107474271630380X)
Abstract: Abstract
Long-term memories can undergo destabilization/restabilization processes, collectively called reconsolidation. However, the parameters that trigger memory reconsolidation are poorly understood and are a matter of intense investigation. Particularly, memory retrieval is widely held as requisite to initiate reconsolidation. This assumption makes sense since only relevant cues will induce reconsolidation of a specific memory. However, recent studies show that pharmacological inhibition of retrieval does not avoid memory from undergoing reconsolidation, indicating that memory reconsolidation occurs through a process that can be dissociated from retrieval. We propose that retrieval is not a unitary process but has two dissociable components; one leading to the expression of memory and the other to reconsolidation, referred herein as executer and integrator respectively. The executer would lead to the behavioral expression of the memory. This component would be the one disrupted on the studies that show reconsolidation independence from retrieval. The integrator would deal with reconsolidation. This component of retrieval would lead to long-term memory destabilization when specific conditions are met. We think that an important number of reports are consistent with the hypothesis that reconsolidation is only initiated when updating information is acquired. We suggest that the integrator would initiate reconsolidation to integrate updating information into long-term memory.
Keywords: Memory retrieval; Memory expression; Memory updating; Memory reconsolidation

Aravind Sesagiri Raamkumar, Schubert Foo, Natalie Pang, Using author-specified keywords in building an initial reading list of research papers in scientific paper retrieval and recommender systems, Information Processing & Management, Volume 53, Issue 3, May 2017, Pages 577-594, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2016.12.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457316301042)
Abstract: Abstract
An initial reading list is prepared by researchers at the start of literature review for getting an overview of the research performed in a particular area. Prior studies have taken the approach of merely recommending seminal or popular papers to aid researchers in such a task. In this paper, we present an alternative technique called the AKR (Author-specified Keywords based Retrieval) technique for providing popular, recent, survey and a diverse set of papers as a part of the initial reading list. The AKR technique is based on a novel coverage value that has its calculation centered on author-specified keywords. We performed an offline evaluation experiment with four variants of the AKR technique along with three state-of-the-art approaches involving collaborative filtering and graph ranking algorithms. Findings show that the Hyperlink-Induced Topic Search (HITS) enhanced variant of the AKR technique performs better than other techniques, satisfying most requirements for a reading list. A user evaluation study was conducted with 132 researchers to gauge user interest on the proposed technique using 14 evaluation measures. Results show that (i) students group are more satisfied with the recommended papers than staff group, (ii) popularity measure is strongly correlated with the output quality measures and (iii) the measures familiarity, usefulness and ‘agreeability on a good list’ were found to be strong predictors for user satisfaction. The AKR technique provides scope for extension in future information retrieval (IR) and content-based recommender systems (RS) studies.
Keywords: Reading list; Literature review; Digital libraries; Scientific paper information retrieval; Author-specified keywords; Scientific paper recommender systems

Zakaria Saoud, Samir Kechid, Integrating social profile to improve the source selection and the result merging process in distributed information retrieval, Information Sciences, Volume 336, 1 April 2016, Pages 115-128, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2015.12.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025515009019)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper we present a new personalized approach, which integrates a social profile into a distributed search system. Most previous studies on distributed information retrieval are based on textual information, and rarely consider any social information. Based on this observation, we propose an approach which exploits the social profile and the different relations between social entities. We believe that this method can: (i) enhance a query expansion, (ii) personalize and improve both the source selection and the result merging process in distributed information retrieval systems.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Social profile; Folksonomy; Source selection process; Merging process

Ahmet Arslan, DeASCIIfication approach to handle diacritics in Turkish information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 52, Issue 2, March 2016, Pages 326-339, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2015.08.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457315001053)
Abstract: Abstract
The absence of diacritics in text documents or search queries is a serious problem for Turkish information retrieval because it creates homographic ambiguity. Thus, the inappropriate handling of diacritics reduces the retrieval performance in search engines. A straightforward solution to this problem is to normalize tokens by replacing diacritic characters with their American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) counterparts. However, this so-called ASCIIfication produces either synthetic words that are not legitimate Turkish words or legitimate words with meanings that are completely different from those of the original words. These non-valid synthetic words cannot be processed by morphological analysis components (such as stemmers or lemmatizers), which expect the input to be valid Turkish words. By contrast, synthetic words are not a problem when no stemmer or a simple first-n-characters-stemmer is used in the text analysis pipeline. This difference emphasizes the notion of the diacritic sensitivity of stemmers. In this study, we propose and evaluate an alternative solution based on the application of deASCIIfication, which restores accented letters in query terms or text documents. Our risk-sensitive evaluation results showed that the diacritics restoration approach yielded more effective and robust results compared with normalizing tokens to remove diacritics.
Keywords: Accents; DeASCIIfier; Diacritics restoration; Risk-sensitive evaluation; Stemming; Turkish information retrieval

Mohamed Reda Bouadjenek, Hakim Hacid, Mokrane Bouzeghoub, Social networks and information retrieval, how are they converging? A survey, a taxonomy and an analysis of social information retrieval approaches and platforms, Information Systems, Volume 56, March 2016, Pages 1-18, ISSN 0306-4379, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2015.07.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030643791500160X)
Abstract: Abstract
There is currently a number of research work performed in the area of bridging the gap between Information Retrieval (IR) and Online Social Networks (OSN). This is mainly done by enhancing the IR process with information coming from social networks, a process called Social Information Retrieval (SIR). The main question one might ask is What would be the benefits of using social information (no matter whether it is content or structure) into the information retrieval process and how is this currently done?

With the growing number of efforts towards the combination of IR and social networks, it is necessary to build a clearer picture of the domain and synthesize the efforts in a structured and meaningful way. This paper reviews different efforts in this domain. It intends to provide a clear understanding of the issues as well as a clear structure of the contributions. More precisely, we propose (i) to review some of the most important contributions in this domain to understand the principles of SIR, (ii) a taxonomy to categorize these contributions, and finally, (iii) an analysis of some of these contributions and tools with respect to several criteria, which we believe are crucial to design an effective SIR approach. This paper is expected to serve researchers and practitioners as a reference to help them structuring the domain, position themselves and, ultimately, help them to propose new contributions or improve existing ones.
Keywords: Information Retrieval; Social networks; Social Information Retrieval; Social search; Social recommendation

Jesús Vilares, Manuel Vilares, Miguel A. Alonso, Michael P. Oakes, On the feasibility of character n-grams pseudo-translation for Cross-Language Information Retrieval tasks, Computer Speech & Language, Volume 36, March 2016, Pages 136-164, ISSN 0885-2308, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csl.2015.09.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0885230815000935)
Abstract: Abstract
The field of Cross-Language Information Retrieval relates techniques close to both the Machine Translation and Information Retrieval fields, although in a context involving characteristics of its own. The present study looks to widen our knowledge about the effectiveness and applicability to that field of non-classical translation mechanisms that work at character n-gram level. For the purpose of this study, an n-gram based system of this type has been developed. This system requires only a bilingual machine-readable dictionary of n-grams, automatically generated from parallel corpora, which serves to translate queries previously n-grammed in the source language. n-Gramming is then used as an approximate string matching technique to perform monolingual text retrieval on the set of n-grammed documents in the target language.

The tests for this work have been performed on CLEF collections for seven European languages, taking English as the target language. After an initial tuning phase in order to analyze the most effective way for its application, the results obtained, close to the upper baseline, not only confirm the consistency across languages of this kind of character n-gram based approaches, but also constitute a further proof of their validity and applicability, these not being tied to a given implementation.
Keywords: Cross-Language Information Retrieval; Character n-grams; Alignment algorithms for Machine Translation

Mangala Madankar, M.B. Chandak, Nekita Chavhan, Information Retrieval System and Machine Translation: A Review, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 78, 2016, Pages 845-850, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.02.071.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916000739)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper we introduce some of the most important areas of information retrieval i.e. Cross-lingual Information Retrieval (CLIR), Multi-lingual Information Retrieval (MLIR), Machine translation approaches and techniques. In today's growing nation, local database storage and retrieval is essential for the developing countries. CLIR deals with asking queries in one language and demand for retrieving documents in another language. MLIR deals with asking questions in one or more languages and retrieving documents in one or more different languages. Machine translation plays an important role to achieve the CLIR and MLIR system.
Keywords: Information Retrieval; Cross Language Information Retrieval; Multilanguage Information Retrieval; Multilingual Indian Language; Machine Translation

Razieh Rahimi, Azadeh Shakery, Irwin King, Extracting translations from comparable corpora for Cross-Language Information Retrieval using the language modeling framework, Information Processing & Management, Volume 52, Issue 2, March 2016, Pages 299-318, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2015.08.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457315001028)
Abstract: Abstract
A main challenge in Cross-Language Information Retrieval (CLIR) is to estimate a proper translation model from available translation resources, since translation quality directly affects the retrieval performance. Among different translation resources, we focus on obtaining translation models from comparable corpora, because they provide appropriate translations for both languages and domains with limited linguistic resources. In this paper, we employ a two-step approach to build an effective translation model from comparable corpora, without requiring any additional linguistic resources, for the CLIR task. In the first step, translations are extracted by deriving correlations between source–target word pairs. These correlations are used to estimate word translation probabilities in the second step. We propose a language modeling approach for the first step, where modeling based on probability distribution provides two key advantages. First, our approach can be tuned easier in comparison with heuristically adjusted previous work. Second, it provides a principled basis for integrating additional lexical and translational relations to improve the accuracy of translations from comparable corpora. As an indication, we integrate monolingual relations of word co-occurrences into the process of translation extraction, which helps to extract more reliable translations for low-frequency words in a comparable corpus. Experimental results on an English–Persian comparable corpus show that our method outperforms the previous approaches in terms of both translation quality and the performance of CLIR. Indeed, the proposed method is naturally applicable to any comparable corpus, regardless of its languages. In addition, we demonstrate the significant impact of word translation probabilities, estimated in the second step of our approach, on the performance of CLIR.
Keywords: Translation model; Bilingual lexicon; Comparable corpora; Cross-Language Information Retrieval; Language modeling framework

Michael Abramovici, Philip Gebus, Jens Christian Göbel, Hoang Bao Dang, A Semantic Information Retrieval Framework within the Scope of IPS2-PLM, Procedia CIRP, Volume 47, 2016, Pages 294-299, ISSN 2212-8271, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2016.03.083.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212827116300531)
Abstract: Abstract
The Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) approach faces new challenges if transferred for Industrial Product Service Systems (IPS2). The vast amount of heterogeneous data generated throughout an IPS2's lifecycle complicates the retrieval of required information for IPS2 actors. However, these actors’ risky decisions determine an IPS2's success during use phase. Thus, an approach is needed that supports actors in finding targeted information. This paper presents a framework that utilizes semantic and text mining techniques in order to improve the information retrieval process in IPS2-PLM and to allow IPS2 actors to focus on their value-adding tasks rather than spending a lot of time for finding information.
Keywords: IPS2; Semantic Information Retrieval; IPS2-PLM; Semantic Search

Vijay Kumar Sharma, Namita Mittal, Exploiting Wikipedia API for Hindi-english Cross-language Information Retrieval, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 89, 2016, Pages 434-440, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.06.094.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916311590)
Abstract: Abstract
The rapidly increasing demographics of the internet population and the abundance of multilingual content on the web increased the communication in multiple languages. Most of the people use their regional languages to express their needs and the language diversity becomes a great barrier. Cross-Language Information Retrieval (CLIR) provides a solution for that language barrier which allows a user to ask a query in the native language and get the relevant documents in the different language. In this paper, we proposed a Wikipedia API based query translation approach. Queries are tokenized and multi-words query terms are created using N-gram technique. Wikipedia title and inter-wiki link features are exploited for query translation. Target language documents are retrieved using vector space retrieval model and BM25 retrieval algorithm. Experiment results shows that the proposed approach achieves better results without exploiting any language resources.
Keywords: Cross-Language Information Retrieval; Inter-Wiki Link; Wikipedia API

Nava Ehsan, Azadeh Shakery, Candidate document retrieval for cross-lingual plagiarism detection using two-level proximity information, Information Processing & Management, Volume 52, Issue 6, November 2016, Pages 1004-1017, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2016.04.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457316300784)
Abstract: Abstract
The rapid growth of documents in different languages, the increased accessibility of electronic documents, and the availability of translation tools have caused cross-lingual plagiarism detection research area to receive increasing attention in recent years. The task of cross-language plagiarism detection entails two main steps: candidate retrieval and assessing pairwise document similarity. In this paper we examine candidate retrieval, where the goal is to find potential source documents of a suspicious text. Our proposed method for cross-language plagiarism detection is a keyword-focused approach. Since plagiarism usually happens in parts of the text, there is a requirement to segment the texts into fragments to detect local similarity. Therefore we propose a topic-based segmentation algorithm to convert the suspicious document to a set of related passages. After that, we use a proximity-based model to retrieve documents with the best matching passages. Experiments show promising results for this important phase of cross-language plagiarism detection.
Keywords: Candidate document retrieval; Cross-language plagiarism detection; Text segmentation; Proximity-based retrieval

Fabrice Papy, 1 - Information Retrieval, Web and Interoperability, In Digital Libraries, Elsevier, 2016, Pages 1-28, ISBN 9781785480454, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-1-78548-045-4.50001-5.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9781785480454500015)
Abstract: Abstract:
Widespread access to the Internet and its most commonly used services, such as electronic mail, Web and, most recently, digital social networks, has led to a trivialization of information retrieval (IR) practices [GRI 11, DIN 14, DIN 07, CIA 05, ASS 02], which were in the recent past reserved for information specialists (journalists, information officers, guards, archivists, librarians, etc.) [CAT 01, DUF 01, LEF 00]. Having been introduced to the general public by the free access general search engines, IR was for several years delegated to a group of Internet surfers at the mercy of these automated indexing and retrieval systems with basic mechanisms1, which can precisely and rapidly list a large part of the visible document production in the Web of documents [LEW 08, CHI 07, RIE 06, LEL 99].
Keywords: Computer science; Digital use; HTTP; Information retrieval; Interoperability; IR specificity; IS specificity; Repositories; Technical documentation; WordPress data model

Sebastian Bittl, Privacy conserving low volume information retrieval from backbone services in VANETs, Vehicular Communications, Volume 9, July 2017, Pages 1-7, ISSN 2214-2096, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.vehcom.2017.02.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214209616301413)
Abstract: Abstract
Mobile ad hoc networks are of high interest in research and practice, especially as realizations in the automotive domain. Wireless data exchange, safety critical use cases and privacy requirements impose tough challenges on applied security mechanisms. Well studied solutions are available for direct communication between nodes. However, also time critical data retrieval from backbone services is required for many use cases, like the delivery of pseudonym certificates. This topic has not been looked at in detail in prior work. We show that the approach proposed in standards bears significant drawbacks. High effort in the input message validation process causes a denial of service weakness of backbone services. Moreover, request messages contain removable data sets making them unnecessarily long, which leads to high bandwidth requirements for reliable communication between backbone and mobile node. Thus, we propose a new data retrieval scheme increasing robustness of the backbone to denial of service attacks and decreasing length of nodes' request messages. The conducted evaluation shows good usability of the approach.
Keywords: VANET; Privacy; Security

Yu-Guang Yang, Si-Jia Sun, Qing-Xiang Pan, Peng Xu, Reductions between private information retrieval and oblivious transfer at the quantum level, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 126, Issue 21, November 2015, Pages 3206-3209, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2015.07.149.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402615007020)
Abstract: Abstract
Although private information retrieval and oblivious transfer are equivalent in classical cryptography, we show that the existence of secure quantum private information retrieval is necessary but not sufficient for secure quantum oblivious transfer, which provides a strong evidence of nonequivalence of two flavors of oblivious transfer at the quantum level.
Keywords: Private information retrieval; Oblivious transfer; Reduction

Yael Sender, An Intervention Program for Improving Writing and Information Retrieval among Students with Ambidexterity, Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, Volume 209, 3 December 2015, Pages 565-571, ISSN 1877-0428, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2015.11.288.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042815056359)
Abstract: Abstract
This research deals with 1% of the population who is defined as ambidextrous who characterized by slow writing pace, information retrieval and sequence memorizing and had a gap in their academic achievements.

This study refers to a unique intervention program called ATP (ambidexterity training program) which examined the effect of it on ambidextrous students (7-16) through routine training

A.T.P included drawing, meant to strengthen the middle-line crossing, writing sequences of the Hebrew alphabet (for older students also English alphabet) and number sequences in order to improve the verbal fluency, and copying a paragraph (30 words) in order to improve writing pace.
Keywords: Ambidexterity; Writing skill; Information Retrieval; Brain plasticity; Training

Sumitkumar Kanoje, Debajyoti Mukhopadhyay, Sheetal Girase, User Profiling for University Recommender System Using Automatic Information Retrieval, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 78, 2016, Pages 5-12, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.02.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916000041)
Abstract: Abstract
User Profiling is the process of Extracting, Integrating and Identifying the keyword based information to generate a structured Profile and then visualizing the knowledge out of these findings. User profiling helps personalizing a system to work according to user. Therefore user profiling or personalization is one of the major concepts used for accessing the user relevant information, which can be used to solve the difficult problems of recommender system like classification and ranking of items in accordance with an individual's interest.

In this paper we focus on the problem of user profiling in which we aim at finding, extracting and integrating keyword based information from various web sources to generate a structured profile. Further we do some experiments on the profiled information to generate knowledge out of it.
Keywords: User Profiling; Information Retrieval; Data Mining

Ariel Antonio Morán Reyes, Catalina Naumis Peña, Methods and trends of biomedical and genomic information retrieval based on semantic relations of thesauri and MeSH, Investigación Bibliotecológica: Archivonomía, Bibliotecología e Información, Volume 30, Issue 68, Supplement, January–April 2016, Pages 109-123, ISSN 0187-358X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ibbai.2016.06.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0187358X16300326)
Abstract: ABSTRACT
In the field of genomic science and medicine in general, there are two methods of retrieving information from documents, namely: 1) through the combined use of associations determined by the Medical Subject Headings, and 2) by employing specific terminologies, such as those in folksonomies, alternative medical-genomic terms in use in the general language, or acronyms or apocopes from the genomics field. To some extent, many thinkers in matters of indexing hold that the combination of two methods may be the best approach. While few authors advocate for keeping the structure of controlled vocabularies, built up over many years of content interpretation, unchanged, there are numerous proposals for expanding the search horizons of thesauri, whether through social cataloging, algorithmic domain analyses that contrast indicators or the semantic web, using markers of meaningful semantic lexicons contained in digitized text.
Keywords: Library Science and Terminology; Automated Information Retrieval; Medical Subjects Headings; Thesauri; Bibliotecología y terminología; Recuperación de información automatizada; Encabezamientos de temas médicos; Tesauros

Julien Souvignet, Gunnar Declerck, Hadyl Asfari, Marie-Christine Jaulent, Cédric Bousquet, OntoADR a semantic resource describing adverse drug reactions to support searching, coding, and information retrieval, Journal of Biomedical Informatics, Volume 63, October 2016, Pages 100-107, ISSN 1532-0464, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2016.06.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046416300533)
Abstract: AbstractIntroduction
Efficient searching and coding in databases that use terminological resources requires that they support efficient data retrieval. The Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) is a reference terminology for several countries and organizations to code adverse drug reactions (ADRs) for pharmacovigilance. Ontologies that are available in the medical domain provide several advantages such as reasoning to improve data retrieval. The field of pharmacovigilance does not yet benefit from a fully operational ontology to formally represent the MedDRA terms. Our objective was to build a semantic resource based on formal description logic to improve MedDRA term retrieval and aid the generation of on-demand custom groupings by appropriately and efficiently selecting terms: OntoADR.
Methods
The method consists of the following steps: (1) mapping between MedDRA terms and SNOMED-CT, (2) generation of semantic definitions using semi-automatic methods, (3) storage of the resource and (4) manual curation by pharmacovigilance experts.
Results
We built a semantic resource for ADRs enabling a new type of semantics-based term search. OntoADR adds new search capabilities relative to previous approaches, overcoming the usual limitations of computation using lightweight description logic, such as the intractability of unions or negation queries, bringing it closer to user needs. Our automated approach for defining MedDRA terms enabled the association of at least one defining relationship with 67% of preferred terms. The curation work performed on our sample showed an error level of 14% for this automated approach. We tested OntoADR in practice, which allowed us to build custom groupings for several medical topics of interest.
Discussion
The methods we describe in this article could be adapted and extended to other terminologies which do not benefit from a formal semantic representation, thus enabling better data retrieval performance. Our custom groupings of MedDRA terms were used while performing signal detection, which suggests that the graphical user interface we are currently implementing to process OntoADR could be usefully integrated into specialized pharmacovigilance software that rely on MedDRA.
Keywords: Knowledge representation; Pharmacovigilance; Biological ontologies; Terminological reasoning; Data retrieval

Ashwin Kumar T.K., Johnson P. Thomas, Saikiran Parepally, An efficient and secure information retrieval framework for content centric networks, Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing, Volume 104, June 2017, Pages 223-233, ISSN 0743-7315, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpdc.2017.01.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0743731517300436)
Abstract: Abstract
Content centric networking is a new networking architecture designed to work with existing network architecture and protocols. In content centric networks emphasis is on data rather than its location. Content centric networks, support data caching in intermediate nodes that allows them to serve future request. This results in more efficient content delivery. As data is cached at various intermediate nodes, the owner of the data has no control over the data. Data stored in intermediate nodes can be vulnerable and be exploited by the intermediate nodes, malicious users and intruders, who do not have legitimate access to these data. In addition to this entire data is being broadcasted by the intermediate nodes whenever they receive a request for that corresponding data. This utilizes a substantial portion of the network bandwidth. To address these issues we propose a framework in this paper that (1) efficiently organizes data that is cached in intermediate nodes using a NOSQL (Not Only SQL) graph database, (2) reduces the network utilization, (3) secures all the data transferred across content centric networks, such that only owners of the data can provide access to the consumers of their data and (4) provides role-based access to the consumers, and reduces complications in key distribution and management. Our experimental results indicate that our framework is able to reduce network utilization by over 79% in the best-case scenario and by over 65% in the worst-case scenario.
Keywords: Content centric networks; Security; NOSQL; Network utilization; Role-based access

Ariel Antonio Morán Reyes, Catalina Naumis Peña, Métodos y tendencias de recuperación de información biomédica y genómica basados en las relaciones semánticas de los tesauros y los MeSH, Investigación Bibliotecológica: Archivonomía, Bibliotecología e Información, Volume 30, Issue 68, January–April 2016, Pages 109-123, ISSN 0187-358X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ibbai.2016.02.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0187358X16000071)
Abstract: ABSTRACT
There are two methods of retrieving information from documents in the field of genomic science and medicine in general, namely: 1) through the combined use of associations determined by the Medical Subject Headings, and 2) by employing specific terminologies, such as in folksonomies, alternative medical-genomic terms in use in the general language, or acronyms or apocopes from the genomics field. To some extent, many thinkers and indexers hold that the combination of two methods may be the best approach. While few authors advocate for keeping the structure of controlled vocabularies, built up over many years of content interpretation, unchanged, there are numerous proposals for expanding the search horizons of thesauri, whether through social cataloging, algorithmic domain analyses that contrast indicators or the semantic web using markers of meaningful semantic lexicons contained in digitized text.
Palabras clave: Bibliotecología y terminología; Recuperación de información automatizada; Encabezamientos de temas médicos; Tesauros; Library Science and Terminology; Automated Information Retrieval; Medical Subjects Headings; Thesauri

Felix Mata-Rivera, Miguel Torres-Ruiz, Giovanni Guzmán, Marco Moreno-Ibarra, Rolando Quintero, A collaborative learning approach for geographic information retrieval based on social networks, Computers in Human Behavior, Volume 51, Part B, October 2015, Pages 829-842, ISSN 0747-5632, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2014.11.069.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0747563214006876)
Abstract: Abstract
Nowadays, spatial and temporal data play an important role in social networks. These data are distributed and dispersed in several heterogeneous data sources. These peculiarities make that geographic information retrieval being a non-trivial task, considering that the spatial data are often unstructured and built by different collaborative communities from social networks. The problem arises when user queries are performed with different levels of semantic granularity. This fact is very typical in social communities, where users have different levels of expertise. In this paper, a novelty approach based on three matching-query layers driven by ontologies on the heterogeneous data sources is presented. A technique of query contextualization is proposed for addressing to available heterogeneous data sources including social networks. It consists of contextualizing a query in which whether a data source does not contain a relevant result, other sources either provide an answer or in the best case, each one adds a relevant answer to the set of results. This approach is a collaborative learning system based on experience level of users in different domains. The retrieval process is achieved from three domains: temporal, geographical and social, which are involved in the user-content context. The work is oriented towards defining a GIScience collaborative learning for geographic information retrieval, using social networks, web and geodatabases.
Keywords: Geographic information retrieval; GIScience collaborative learning; Query contextualization; Matching-query layers; Ontology

Hannah Greving, Kai Sassenberg, Counter-regulation online: Threat biases retrieval of information during Internet search, Computers in Human Behavior, Volume 50, September 2015, Pages 291-298, ISSN 0747-5632, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2015.03.077.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0747563215002782)
Abstract: Abstract
The Internet is one of the main information sources. It is frequently used to gather information in self-relevant domains, such as health. Self-relevant information is likely to be accompanied by certain affective and motivational states. For instance, individuals may be afraid to be seriously ill and, thus, feel threatened. Threat is known to elicit preferential processing of positive information. Therefore, we predicted that under threat more positive search terms are retrieved from memory and more positive information is retrieved from already encoded online information than in a control condition. Two experiments supported this prediction. Thus, information processing during Internet search is positively biased under threat. This positive bias can satisfy coping needs, but can at the same time have a negative impact on subsequent behavior and decisions.
Keywords: Threat; Internet search; Retrieval; Counter-regulation; Self-relevant information

Nouman Ali, Khalid Bashir Bajwa, Robert Sablatnig, Zahid Mehmood, Image retrieval by addition of spatial information based on histograms of triangular regions, Computers & Electrical Engineering, Volume 54, August 2016, Pages 539-550, ISSN 0045-7906, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2016.04.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790616300726)
Abstract: Abstract
The compositional and content attributes of images carry information that enhances the performance of image retrieval. Standard images are constructed by following the rule of thirds that divides an image into nine equal parts by placing objects or regions of interest at the intersecting lines of the grid. An image represents regions and objects that are in a spatial semantic relationship with respect to each other. While the Bag of Features (BoF) representation is commonly used for image retrieval, it lacks spatial information. In this paper, we present two novel image representation methods based on the histograms of triangles, which add spatial information to the inverted index of BoF representation. Histograms of triangles are computed at two levels, by dividing an image into two and four triangles that are evaluated separately. Extensive experiments and comparisons conducted on two datasets demonstrate that the proposed image representations enhance the performance of image retrieval.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Histogram of triangles; Dense features; Image classification; Deep belief networks; Support vector machines

David A. Vogelsang, Heidi M. Bonnici, Zara M. Bergström, Charan Ranganath, Jon S. Simons, Goal-directed mechanisms that constrain retrieval predict subsequent memory for new “foil” information, Neuropsychologia, Volume 89, August 2016, Pages 356-363, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2016.07.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393216302603)
Abstract: Abstract
To remember a previous event, it is often helpful to use goal-directed control processes to constrain what comes to mind during retrieval. Behavioral studies have demonstrated that incidental learning of new “foil” words in a recognition test is superior if the participant is trying to remember studied items that were semantically encoded compared to items that were non-semantically encoded. Here, we applied subsequent memory analysis to fMRI data to understand the neural mechanisms underlying the “foil effect”. Participants encoded information during deep semantic and shallow non-semantic tasks and were tested in a subsequent blocked memory task to examine how orienting retrieval towards different types of information influences the incidental encoding of new words presented as foils during the memory test phase. To assess memory for foils, participants performed a further surprise old/new recognition test involving foil words that were encountered during the previous memory test blocks as well as completely new words. Subsequent memory effects, distinguishing successful versus unsuccessful incidental encoding of foils, were observed in regions that included the left inferior frontal gyrus and posterior parietal cortex. The left inferior frontal gyrus exhibited disproportionately larger subsequent memory effects for semantic than non-semantic foils, and significant overlap in activity during semantic, but not non-semantic, initial encoding and foil encoding. The results suggest that orienting retrieval towards different types of foils involves re-implementing the neurocognitive processes that were involved during initial encoding.
Keywords: Episodic retrieval; fMRI; Subsequent memory, foils, left inferior frontal gyrus

Tao Yao, Xiangwei Kong, Haiyan Fu, Qi Tian, Supervised Coarse-to-Fine Semantic Hashing for cross-media retrieval, Digital Signal Processing, Volume 63, April 2017, Pages 135-144, ISSN 1051-2004, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dsp.2017.01.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1051200417300064)
Abstract: Abstract
Due to its storage efficiency and fast query speed, cross-media hashing methods have attracted much attention for retrieving semantically similar data over heterogeneous datasets. Supervised hashing methods, which utilize the labeled information to promote the quality of hashing functions, achieve promising performance. However, the existing supervised methods generally focus on utilizing coarse semantic information between samples (e.g. similar or dissimilar), and ignore fine semantic information between samples which may degrade the quality of hashing functions. Accordingly, in this paper, we propose a supervised hashing method for cross-media retrieval which utilizes the coarse-to-fine semantic similarity to learn a sharing space. The inter-category and intra-category semantic similarity are effectively preserved in the sharing space. Then an iterative descent scheme is proposed to achieve an optimal relaxed solution, and hashing codes can be generated by quantizing the relaxed solution. At last, to further improve the discrimination of hashing codes, an orthogonal rotation matrix is learned by minimizing the quantization loss while preserving the optimality of the relaxed solution. Extensive experiments on widely used Wiki and NUS-WIDE datasets demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms the existing methods.
Keywords: Cross-modal retrieval; Coarse-to-fine semantic information; Hashing; Inter-category and intra-category

Meng-Sung Wu, Modeling query-document dependencies with topic language models for information retrieval, Information Sciences, Volume 312, 10 August 2015, Pages 1-12, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2015.03.056.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025515002212)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper addresses deficiencies in current information retrieval models by integrating the concept of relevance into the generation model using various topical aspects of the query. The models are adapted from the latent Dirichlet allocation model, but differ in the way that the notation of query-document relevance is introduced in the modeling framework. In the first method, query terms are added to relevant documents in the training of the latent Dirichlet allocation model. In the second method, the latent Dirichlet allocation model is expanded to deal with relevant query terms. The topic of each term within a given document may be sampled using either the normal document-specific mixture weights in LDA using query-specific mixture weights. We also developed an efficient method based on the Gibbs sampling technique for parameter estimation. Experiment results based on the Text REtrieval Conference Corpus (TREC) demonstrate the superiority of the proposed models.
Keywords: Topic model; Information retrieval; Query-document relevance; Latent Dirichlet allocation

Giulia Mauri, Giacomo Verticale, Up-to-date key retrieval for information centric networking, Computer Networks, Volume 112, 15 January 2017, Pages 1-11, ISSN 1389-1286, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2016.10.018.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128616303668)
Abstract: Abstract
Information Centric Networking (ICN) leverages in-network caching to provide efficient data distribution and better performance by replicating contents in multiple nodes to bring content nearer the users. Since contents are stored and replicated into node caches, the content validity must be assured end-to-end. Each content object carries a digital signature to provide a proof of its integrity, authenticity, and provenance. However, the use of digital signatures requires a key management infrastructure to manage the key life cycle. To perform a proper signature verification, a node needs to know whether the signing key is valid or it has been revoked. This paper discusses how to retrieve up-to-date signing keys in the ICN scenario. In the usual public key infrastructure, the Certificate Revocation Lists (CRL) or the Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) enable applications to obtain the revocation status of a certificate. However, the push-based distribution of Certificate Revocation Lists and the request/response paradigm of Online Certificate Status Protocol should be fit in the mechanism of named-data. We consider three possible approaches to distribute up-to-date keys in a similar way to the current CRL and OCSP. Then, we suggest a fourth protocol leveraging a set of distributed notaries, which naturally fits the ICN scenario. Finally, we evaluate the number and size of exchanged messages of each solution, and then we compare the methods considering the perceived latency by the end nodes and the throughput on the network links.
Keywords: Information centric networking; Named data networking; Digital signature; Public key updating; Key revocation; CRL; OCSP

Jamileh Farokhzadian, Reza Khajouei, Leila Ahmadian, Information seeking and retrieval skills of nurses: Nurses readiness for evidence based practice in hospitals of a medical university in Iran, International Journal of Medical Informatics, Volume 84, Issue 8, August 2015, Pages 570-577, ISSN 1386-5056, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2015.03.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1386505615000805)
Abstract: AbstractBackground
With the explosion of medical information, and emergence of evidence-based practice (EBP) in healthcare system, searching, retrieving and selecting information for clinical decision-making are becoming required skills for nurses.
Aims
The aims of this study were to examine the use of different medical information resources by nurses and their information searching and retrieving skills in the context of EBP.
Method
A descriptive, cross-sectional study was conducted in four teaching hospitals in Iran. Data were collected from 182 nurses using a questionnaire in 2014.
Results
The nurses indicated that they use more human and printed resources than electronic resources to seek information (mean = 2.83, SD = 1.5; mean = 2.77, SD = 1.07; and mean = 2.13, SD = 0.88, respectively). To search online resources, the nurses use quick/basic search features more frequently (mean = 2.45, SD = 1.15) than other search features such as advanced search, index browsing and MeSH term searching. (1.74 ≤ mean ≤ 2.30, SD = 1.01). At least 80% of the nurses were not aware of the purpose or function of search operators such as Boolean and proximity operators. In response to the question measuring skills of the nurses in developing an effective search statement by using Boolean operators, only 20% of them selected the more appropriate statement, using some synonyms of the concepts in a given subject.
Conclusion
The study showed that the information seeking and retrieval skills of the nurses were poor and there were clear deficits in the use of updated information resources. To compensate their EBP incompetency, nurses may resort to human resources. In order to use the latest up to date evidence independently, nurses need to improve their information literacy. To reach this goal, clinical librarians, health information specialists, nursing faculties, and clinical nurse educators and mentors can play key roles by providing educational programs. Providing access to online resources in clinical wards can also encourage nurses to learn and use these resources.
Keywords: Decision-making; Evidence based practice; Information seeking behavior; Information storage and retrieval; Information literacy; Nurses; Iran

Rujijan Vichivanives, Sakolphak Ralangarm, Temple Information Retrieval System using Quick Response Code via Mobile Application, Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, Volume 197, 25 July 2015, Pages 998-1005, ISSN 1877-0428, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2015.07.292.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042815042937)
Abstract: Abstract
Purpose of this research was to develop a searching technology application based on the Android operating system and the utilization of Quick Response Code (QR code) technology as main data storage. The scope of the information searching was limited to locating temples within the districts of Dusit and PhraNakorn of the Bangkok Metropolitan Area. The developer considered the importance of communication through detailed data collection and gathering so that the users of this application could obtain concise and complete information. The result of this research project was that tourists could use the ability of smart devices to scan the QR code via the developed application that subsequently processed and rendered various information, including pictures, history and details of the requested temple inquiries on the displays. The assessment results on the viewpoints of two hundred tourist users in the average of the overall picture was at 4.20, which should be considered to be a good level. The researcher's suggestion was to extend methods of information searching to increase speed, accuracy and correct information to produce maximum benefits and effectiveness that users of this application could expect to receive.
Keywords: information retrieval system; quick response code; mobile application; smartphone

Ville Junnila, Tero Laihonen, Information retrieval with unambiguous output, Information and Computation, Volume 242, June 2015, Pages 354-368, ISSN 0890-5401, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ic.2015.04.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0890540115000449)
Abstract: Abstract
The main problem in information storage has previously been how large amounts of data can be stored. However, the technological development over the years has been able to give rather satisfactory answers to this problem. Recently, the focus has shifted towards determining how stored information can be efficiently retrieved. This problem is addressed in an article by E. Yaakobi and J. Bruck (2012), where information retrieval in associative memories is studied. In this paper, we focus on the case where the retrieved information unit is unambiguous. In particular, we present characterizations and study various extremal properties of such associative memories. Moreover, the algorithmic complexity of certain naturally rising problems is considered.
Keywords: Associative memory; Information retrieval; Extremal graph; Covering code; Forced vertex; Algorithmic complexity

Shengli Wu, Fabio Crestani, A geometric framework for data fusion in information retrieval, Information Systems, Volume 50, June 2015, Pages 20-35, ISSN 0306-4379, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2015.01.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437915000113)
Abstract: Abstract
Data fusion in information retrieval has been investigated by many researchers and a number of data fusion methods have been proposed. However, problems such as why data fusion can increase effectiveness and favorable conditions for the use of data fusion methods are poorly resolved at best. In this paper, we formally describe data fusion under a geometric framework, in which each component result returned from an information retrieval system for a given query is represented as a point in a multi-dimensional space. The Euclidean distance is the measure by which the effectiveness and similarity of search results are judged. This allows us to explain all component results and fused results using geometrical principles. In such a framework, score-based data fusion becomes a deterministic problem. Several interesting features of the centroid-based data fusion method and the linear combination method are discussed. Nevertheless, in retrieval evaluation, ranking-based measures are the most popular. Therefore, this paper investigates the relation and correlation between the Euclidean distance and several typical ranking-based measures. We indeed find that a very strong correlation exists between these. It means that the theorems and observations obtained using the Euclidean distance remain valid when ranking-based measures are used. The proposed framework enables us to have a better understanding of score-based data fusion and use score-based data fusion methods more precisely and effectively in various ways.
Keywords: Database searching; Geometric modeling; Information retrieval; Data fusion

Julián Moreno-Schneider, Paloma Martínez, José L. Martínez-Fernández, Combining heterogeneous sources in an interactive multimedia content retrieval model, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 69, 1 March 2017, Pages 201-213, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2016.10.049.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417416305917)
Abstract: Abstract
Interactive multimodal information retrieval systems (IMIR) increase the capabilities of traditional search systems, by adding the ability to retrieve information of different types (modes) and from different sources. This article describes a formal model for interactive multimodal information retrieval. This model includes formal and widespread definitions of each component of an IMIR system. A use case that focuses on information retrieval regarding sports validates the model, by developing a prototype that implements a subset of the features of the model. Adaptive techniques applied to the retrieval functionality of IMIR systems have been defined by analysing past interactions using decision trees, neural networks, and clustering techniques. This model includes a strategy for selecting sources and combining the results obtained from every source. After modifying the strategy of the prototype for selecting sources, the system is re-evaluated using classification techniques. This evaluation compares the normalised discounted cumulative gain (NDCG) measure obtained using two different approaches: the multimodal system using a baseline strategy based on predefined rules as a source selection strategy, and the same multimodal system with the functionality adapted by past user interactions. In the adapted system, a final value of 81,54% was obtained for the NDCG.
Keywords: Multimodal information retrieval; User adaptation; Retrieval engines; Rule-based expert systems

David A. Hanauer, Qiaozhu Mei, James Law, Ritu Khanna, Kai Zheng, Supporting information retrieval from electronic health records: A report of University of Michigan’s nine-year experience in developing and using the Electronic Medical Record Search Engine (EMERSE), Journal of Biomedical Informatics, Volume 55, June 2015, Pages 290-300, ISSN 1532-0464, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2015.05.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046415000829)
Abstract: AbstractObjective
This paper describes the University of Michigan’s nine-year experience in developing and using a full-text search engine designed to facilitate information retrieval (IR) from narrative documents stored in electronic health records (EHRs). The system, called the Electronic Medical Record Search Engine (EMERSE), functions similar to Google but is equipped with special functionalities for handling challenges unique to retrieving information from medical text.
Materials and methods
Key features that distinguish EMERSE from general-purpose search engines are discussed, with an emphasis on functions crucial to (1) improving medical IR performance and (2) assuring search quality and results consistency regardless of users’ medical background, stage of training, or level of technical expertise.
Results
Since its initial deployment, EMERSE has been enthusiastically embraced by clinicians, administrators, and clinical and translational researchers. To date, the system has been used in supporting more than 750 research projects yielding 80 peer-reviewed publications. In several evaluation studies, EMERSE demonstrated very high levels of sensitivity and specificity in addition to greatly improved chart review efficiency.
Discussion
Increased availability of electronic data in healthcare does not automatically warrant increased availability of information. The success of EMERSE at our institution illustrates that free-text EHR search engines can be a valuable tool to help practitioners and researchers retrieve information from EHRs more effectively and efficiently, enabling critical tasks such as patient case synthesis and research data abstraction.
Conclusion
EMERSE, available free of charge for academic use, represents a state-of-the-art medical IR tool with proven effectiveness and user acceptance.
Keywords: Electronic health records (E05.318.308.940.968.625.500); Search engine (L01.470.875); Information storage and retrieval (L01.470)

Jukka-Pekka Kauppi, Melih Kandemir, Veli-Matti Saarinen, Lotta Hirvenkari, Lauri Parkkonen, Arto Klami, Riitta Hari, Samuel Kaski, Towards brain-activity-controlled information retrieval: Decoding image relevance from MEG signals, NeuroImage, Volume 112, 15 May 2015, Pages 288-298, ISSN 1053-8119, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.12.079.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811915000026)
Abstract: Abstract
We hypothesize that brain activity can be used to control future information retrieval systems. To this end, we conducted a feasibility study on predicting the relevance of visual objects from brain activity. We analyze both magnetoencephalographic (MEG) and gaze signals from nine subjects who were viewing image collages, a subset of which was relevant to a predetermined task. We report three findings: i) the relevance of an image a subject looks at can be decoded from MEG signals with performance significantly better than chance, ii) fusion of gaze-based and MEG-based classifiers significantly improves the prediction performance compared to using either signal alone, and iii) non-linear classification of the MEG signals using Gaussian process classifiers outperforms linear classification. These findings break new ground for building brain-activity-based interactive image retrieval systems, as well as for systems utilizing feedback both from brain activity and eye movements.
Keywords: Bayesian classification; Image relevance; Implicit relevance feedback; Information retrieval; Magnetoencephalography; Gaze signal; Gaussian processes

Bin Jiang, Jiachen Yang, Zhihan Lv, Kun Tian, Qinggang Meng, Yan Yan, Internet cross-media retrieval based on deep learning, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Available online 20 February 2017, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2017.02.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320317300482)
Abstract: Abstract
With the development of Internet, multimedia information such as image and video is widely used. Therefore, how to find the required multimedia data quickly and accurately in a large number of resources, has become a research focus in the field of information process. In this paper, we propose a real time internet cross-media retrieval method based on deep learning. As an innovation, we have made full improvement in feature extracting and distance detection. After getting a large amount of image feature vectors, we sort the elements in the vector according to their contribution and then eliminate unnecessary features. Experiments show that our method can achieve high precision in image-text cross media retrieval, using less retrieval time. This method has a great application space in the field of cross media retrieval.
Keywords: Cross-media retrieval; Deep learning; Feature extracting; Multimedia information

Lynda Tamine, Cecile Chouquet, On the impact of domain expertise on query formulation, relevance assessment and retrieval performance in clinical settings, Information Processing & Management, Volume 53, Issue 2, March 2017, Pages 332-350, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2016.11.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030645731630303X)
Abstract: Abstract
The large volumes of medical information available on the web may provide answers for a wide range of users attempting to solve health-related problems. While experts generally utilize reliable resources for diagnosis search and professional development, novices utilize different (social) web resources to obtain information that helps them manage their health or the health of people who they care for. A diverse number of related search topics address clinical diagnosis, advice searching, information sharing, connecting with experts, etc. This paper focuses on the extent to which expertise can impact clinical query formulation, document relevance assessment and retrieval performance in the context of tailoring retrieval models and systems to experts vs. non-experts. The results show that medical domain expertise 1) plays an important role in the lexical representations of information needs; 2) significantly influences the perception of relevance even among users with similar levels of expertise and 3) reinforces the idea that a single ground truth does not exist, thereby leading to the variability of system rankings with respect to the level of user’s expertise. The findings of this study presents opportunities for the design of personalized health-related IR systems, but also for providing insights about the evaluation of such systems.
Keywords: Medical information retrieval; Domain expertise; Query formulations Relevance assessment; Retrieval performance

J. Kolassa, P. Gentine, C. Prigent, F. Aires, S.H. Alemohammad, Soil moisture retrieval from AMSR-E and ASCAT microwave observation synergy. Part 2: Product evaluation, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 195, 15 June 2017, Pages 202-217, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2017.04.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425717301694)
Abstract: Abstract
A neural network (NN) soil moisture retrieval product computed from the synergy of AMSR-E brightness temperature and ASCAT backscatter observations is evaluated against in situ soil moisture observations from the International Soil Moisture Network (ISMN). The skill of the NN retrieval is compared to that of the ESA-CCI soil moisture retrieval as well as modeled soil moisture fields from ERA-interim/land. The NN retrieval is able to capture the observed soil moisture temporal variations with a station-average correlation and anomaly correlation of 0.45 and 0.35, respectively. For most ground stations the model obtained a higher temporal correlation skill, with average correlation and anomaly correlation values of 0.53 and 0.46, respectively. For stations in data-sparse regions, the NN retrieval showed a slightly better performance than the model, illustrating the potential of soil moisture retrievals to inform models in data-sparse areas. A time series analysis further showed that the retrieval is well able to capture soil moisture variability outside of active precipitation phases, such as the soil moisture behavior during the dry down phase. Compared to the ESA-CCI retrieval, the NN methodology obtained higher correlations, as a result of its ability to use the complementary information provided by the active and passive microwave sensors. A global evaluation of the retrieval errors through a triple collocation analysis with SMOS and GLDAS soil moisture estimates showed that the errors are high in energy limited regions, where the NN retrieval appears to be lacking input information. In the data-sparse regions of Africa and South America, the triple collocation analysis confirmed the higher skill of the NN retrieval compared to the model.
Keywords: Satellite retrieval; Soil moisture; Surface hydrology; Active/passive microwave; Sensor synergy

Tino Endres, Shana Carpenter, Alf Martin, Alexander Renkl, Enhancing learning by retrieval: Enriching free recall with elaborative prompting, Learning and Instruction, Volume 49, June 2017, Pages 13-20, ISSN 0959-4752, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.learninstruc.2016.11.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959475216302547)
Abstract: Abstract
It is well-established in memory research that retrieval fosters learning. When applying this effect in education, it is an important question which type of retrieval task works best. Several studies have shown that learning is enhanced by linking new information with prior knowledge. A potential approach to making retrieval more effective, therefore, is to enrich retrieval instructions with the requirement to elaborate on the learning contents and link them to what is already known. In this study, we compared a free recall condition, as used in many studies on learning by retrieval, with a prompted recall condition in which learners were required to recall the information and apply it to their lives. Fifty-six undergraduate students were randomly assigned to one of these two conditions. They learned from a video-recorded lecture. One week later, learning outcomes were assessed by a posttest measuring fact recall and comprehension of the contents from the video lecture. Learners in the prompted recall group, compared to the free recall group, used more elaborative strategies in response to the recall task and achieved better comprehension scores. The effect on comprehension was mediated by the use of elaborative strategies. This pattern of results supports the constructive retrieval hypothesis, stating that retrieval is most effective when it involves constructive elaboration of the contents being learned. Our findings also encourage the use of pedagogical tasks in classroom teaching that combine elaboration and retrieval.
Keywords: Learning by retrieval; Retrieval practice; Elaborative retrieval; Learning journals; Learning strategies; Testing effect

Julian Roelle, Kirsten Berthold, Effects of incorporating retrieval into learning tasks: The complexity of the tasks matters, Learning and Instruction, Volume 49, June 2017, Pages 142-156, ISSN 0959-4752, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.learninstruc.2017.01.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959475217300622)
Abstract: Abstract
In an experiment with N = 192 university students, we examined whether the effects of incorporating retrieval into learning tasks depend on the learning tasks' complexity. The learning tasks consisted of adjunct questions that were provided together with expository texts relating to the domain of chemistry. We varied (a) whether the adjunct questions required the learners to summarize (low complexity) or generate inferences on the basis of provided information (high complexity) and (b) whether the adjunct questions were implemented in a closed-book style that required learners to engage in retrieval or in an open-book style that did not require learners to engage in retrieval while responding to the questions. Afterwards, all learners took either an immediate or a delayed criterion test. We found that the effect of incorporating retrieval depended on the complexity of the adjunct questions; the net benefit of incorporating retrieval was higher for the low complexity ones.
Keywords: Retrieval-based learning; Retrieval practice; Adjunct questions; Expository texts

Yogesh Gupta, Ashish Saini, A.K. Saxena, A new fuzzy logic based ranking function for efficient Information Retrieval system, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 42, Issue 3, 15 February 2015, Pages 1223-1234, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2014.09.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S095741741400548X)
Abstract: Abstract
The relevant documents from large data sets are retrieved with the help of ranking function in Information Retrieval system. In this paper, a new fuzzy logic based ranking function is proposed and implemented to enhance the performance of Information Retrieval system. The proposed ranking function is based on the computation of different terms of term-weighting schema such as term frequency, inverse document frequency and normalization. Fuzzy logic is used at two levels to compute relevance score of a document with respect to the query in present work. All the experiments are performed on CACM and CISI benchmark data sets. The experimental results reveal that the performance of our proposed ranking function is much better than the fuzzy based ranking function developed by Rubens along with other widely used ranking function Okapi-BM25 in terms of precision, recall and F-measure.
Keywords: Information Retrieval; Fuzzy Logic Controller; Precision; Recall; Ranking function

S. Chithra, M.S. Sinith, A. Gayathri, Music Information Retrieval for Polyphonic Signals Using Hidden Markov Model, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 46, 2015, Pages 381-387, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.02.034.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915000988)
Abstract: Abstract
Now-a-days, almost all music can be easily accessed via the Internet, but at the same time music can be hard to find. This has created the demand for intelligent music retrieval which allows the user to access the songs that he or she likes. The idea of music information retrieval is basically used in music search systems. In a music search system there will be a huge database of songs. For an efficient music search system, when a particular song in the database is requested, the song has to be correctly identified and retrieved from the database. Music information retrieval for polyphonic music is presented here.
Keywords: Hidden Markov Model; Music Information Retrieval.

Wei Yu, Kuiyuan Yang, Hongxun Yao, Xiaoshuai Sun, Pengfei Xu, Exploiting the complementary strengths of multi-layer CNN features for image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 237, 10 May 2017, Pages 235-241, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.12.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216314734)
Abstract: Abstract
Deep convolutional neural networks have demonstrated breakthrough accuracies for image classification. A series of feature extractors learned from CNN have been used in other computer vision tasks. However, CNN features of different layers aim to encode different-level information. High-layer features care more about semantic information but less detail information, while low-layer features contain more detail information but suffer from the problem of background clutter and semantic ambiguity. We propose to exploit complementary strengths of different layers in a simple but effective way. A mapping function is designed to highlight the effectiveness of low-layer similarity, when measuring fine-grained similarity between query image and its nearest neighbors with similar semantic. Extensive experiments show that our method can achieve competitive performance on popular retrieval benchmarks. Extensive experiments show that the proposed method outperforms the features extracted from single layers and their direct concatenations. Meanwhile, our method achieves competitive performance on popular retrieval benchmarks.
Keywords: Image retrieval; CNN; Multi-level features

S. Remi, S.C. Varghese, Domain Ontology Driven Fuzzy Semantic Information Retrieval, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 46, 2015, Pages 676-681, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.02.122.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915001866)
Abstract: Abstract
With the exponential growth in web content, the answers provided by traditional search engines by query specific keywords to content has resulted in markedly high recall and low precision. Semantic information retrieval can enhance the relevancy of search results by understanding search intention and the contextual meaning of terms as they are entered by the user. In this paper, a novel method for supporting semantic information retrieval is proposed by building a domain specific ontology. A prototype of a fuzzy semantic search engine is developed and the results are compared with that of a traditional search engine.
Keywords: Domain Ontology; Fuzzy Search; Information Retrieval; Semantic Query Processing; Semantic Web

Tobias Tempel, Christian Frings, Retrieval-induced forgetting is retrieval-modality specific: Evidence from motor memory, Cognition, Volume 162, May 2017, Pages 143-152, ISSN 0010-0277, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cognition.2017.02.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010027717300379)
Abstract: Abstract
Three experiments examined the impact of matching retrieval modality at retrieval practice and at test on retrieval-induced forgetting. Participants learned sequential finger movements to be performed either with the left or with the right index finger. Subsequently, they selectively practiced half the items of one hand. A final recall test then assessed memory for all initially learned items. We contrasted different retrieval modalities. In Experiment 1, retrieval practice pertained to motor responses in one experimental condition but it pertained to visual sequence displays in another condition. The final recall test was motoric in both conditions. In Experiment 2, retrieval practice always pertained to visual sequence displays but the final recall test either pertained to motor responses or to visual sequence displays. Retrieval-induced forgetting emerged only when the modality of the final recall test matched the modality of retrieval practice. In Experiment 3, retrieval practice either involved executing motor sequences with the same finger as in the learning phase or participants had to use the opposite hand for indicating sequences. An effector change for retrieval practice eliminated retrieval-induced forgetting in a test requiring the execution of motor sequences again with the same finger as in the learning phase. We suggest that retrieval-induced forgetting occurred as a consequence of retrieval-modality-specific inhibition.
Keywords: Motor memory; Body movement; Retrieval-induced forgetting; Inhibition

Sk Mazharul Islam, Minakshi Banerjee, Siddhartha Bhattacharyya, Susanta Chakraborty, Content-based image retrieval based on multiple extended fuzzy-rough framework, Applied Soft Computing, Volume 57, August 2017, Pages 102-117, ISSN 1568-4946, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2017.03.036.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494617301606)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a content-based image retrieval (CBIR) system with applications in one general purpose and two face image databases using two MPEG-7 image descriptors. The proposed method uses several sophisticated fuzzy-rough feature selection methods and combines the results of these methods to obtain a prominent feature subset for image representation for a particular query. Next, fuzzy-rough upper approximation of the target set (relevant list of images) with respect to the entire database that is represented by the prominent feature subset, is computed for retrieval and ranking. The information table on which every feature selection method works is small in size. Main reasons of performance boost of the proposed method are twofold. One is efficient feature subsets selection. The other reason is the fuzzy-indiscernibility relation based fuzzy-rough framework for computing upper-approximation which supports the approximate equality or similarity sense of CBIR. Fuzzy-rough upper approximation possibly adds more similar images in the relevant list from boundary region to expand the relevant list. The effectiveness of the proposed method is supported by the comparative results obtained from several single dimensionality reduction method, several clustering based retrieval techniques and also tested for face image retrieval.
Keywords: Fuzzy-rough set; Feature selection; Upper approximation; Content-based image retrieval; MPEG-7 image descriptors

Adrian-Gabriel Chifu, Florentina Hristea, Josiane Mothe, Marius Popescu, Word sense discrimination in information retrieval: A spectral clustering-based approach, Information Processing & Management, Volume 51, Issue 2, March 2015, Pages 16-31, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2014.10.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457314001046)
Abstract: Abstract
Word sense ambiguity has been identified as a cause of poor precision in information retrieval (IR) systems. Word sense disambiguation and discrimination methods have been defined to help systems choose which documents should be retrieved in relation to an ambiguous query. However, the only approaches that show a genuine benefit for word sense discrimination or disambiguation in IR are generally supervised ones. In this paper we propose a new unsupervised method that uses word sense discrimination in IR. The method we develop is based on spectral clustering and reorders an initially retrieved document list by boosting documents that are semantically similar to the target query. For several TREC ad hoc collections we show that our method is useful in the case of queries which contain ambiguous terms. We are interested in improving the level of precision after 5, 10 and 30 retrieved documents (P@5, P@10, P@30) respectively. We show that precision can be improved by 8% above current state-of-the-art baselines. We also focus on poor performing queries.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Word sense disambiguation; Word sense discrimination; Spectral clustering; High precision

Liangtao Huang, Yaqun Zhao, Ying Zeng, Zhimin Lin, BHCR: RSVP target retrieval BCI framework coupling with CNN by a Bayesian method, Neurocomputing, Volume 238, 17 May 2017, Pages 255-268, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2017.01.061.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217301698)
Abstract: Abstract
To combine the complementary strengths of human vision (HV) and computer vision (CV) in target image retrieval, we proposed a brain-computer interface framework, Bayesian HV-CV Retrieval (BHCR), which couples HV with CV by a Bayesian method to retrieve target images in rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) sequences. To construct a well-suited electroencephalogram (EEG) decoding module for BHCR, we conducted a comparative inspection on the selection of classification algorithms, and adopted linear discriminant analysis and random forests as a feature extraction method and classification algorithm, respectively. We also introduced a CV system based on convolutional neural network (CNN) as a component of BHCR. A Bayesian brain-computer interaction (BBCI) module was carefully designed so that for each presented image, a Bayesian model that takes HV insight as prior information and CV insights as sample information is built up to present retrieval results. Unlike existing HV-CV coupled works that usually require extra manual labor, BHCR directly enhanced retrieval performance with the help of CV insights. As an auxiliary work and a natural extension of BHCR, we then proposed a probability propagation scheme that incorporates EEG decoding insights to improve the CV system and a one-shot image database retrieval scheme. We demonstrated the effectiveness of BHCR by extensive experiments and simulations on both the entire framework and its sub-components. The results showed the following: (1) The performance of BHCR was significantly better than the EEG-only mechanism in both receiver operating characteristic (ROC) and classification aspects; (2) The robustness of BHCR was ensured by its process flow and the steady performances of its sub-components.
Keywords: Brain-computer interface (BCI); Electroencephalogram (EEG); Rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP); Target image retrieval; Convolutional neural network (CNN); Bayesian brain-computer interaction,

Yao-Jen Tang, Jian-Jhih Kuo, Ming-Jer Tsai, Zero-knowledge GPS-free data replication and retrieval scheme in mobile ad hoc networks using double-ruling and landmark-labeling techniques, Computer Networks, Volume 118, 8 May 2017, Pages 62-77, ISSN 1389-1286, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2017.03.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128617300749)
Abstract: Abstract
Using the double-ruling technique, many data replication and retrieval schemes achieve low data retrieval latency. However, these schemes require Global Positioning System (GPS) in mobile ad hoc networks (MANETs). In this paper, we propose a zero-knowledge double-ruling-based GPS-free data replication and retrieval scheme (MobiMark) in MANETs. Our primary idea is to label the landmarks with the grid-like structure in the network using the landmark-labeling, dynamically designate the node that is the nearest to a landmark as the landmark broker, and transmit the consumers’ interests (or producers’ data) to all horizontal (or vertical) landmark brokers using the double-ruling technique. Simulations show that MobiMark achieves good performance in terms of data retrieval rate and data retrieval latency. In addition, we also develop a theoretical analysis for MobiMark to obtain the upper bound of the hop distance between the consumer and the landmark broker with the consumer’s interest in a square region where the nodes are uniformly and densely distributed and have equal transmission ranges.
Keywords: Data replication and retrieval; Mobile ad hoc network; GPS-free; Double-ruling

K. Balasubramaniam, Hybrid Fuzzy-ontology Design Using FCA Based Clustering for Information Retrieval in Semantic Web, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 50, 2015, Pages 135-142, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.04.075.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915005761)
Abstract: Abstract
Ontology is a way to represent the domain knowledge into a human understandable and machine readable format. It is used as one of the major knowledge representation mechanism for semantic web. Introducing the ontology knowledge provides more relevant search results for the users information need. To deal with uncertain information, the mechanism supported by the regular ontology may not be adequate and the requirement for new technique arises. Fuzzy based methods are the proven methods to interpret the uncertain information. The combination of Fuzzy and Ontology based information retrieval provides better results as they mainly deal with the semantics and the uncertainty of information. Keyword matching is one another widely used method which matches the input keywords with the existing information domain to find the best match results. When the input queries are complex the fuzzy ontology based information retrieval which respects the user's keyword and the domain produces more accurate results. This work enlarges the fuzzy ontology knowledge results along with the input queries and keyword matching. The given algorithm is a hybrid technique based on matching extracted instances from the input queries and in information domain. Overall, compared to the existing query models supported by fuzzy ontology or keyword based models the hybrid ontology with keyword matching is sufficient and easy way to retrieve the documents in semantic web. The performance of the hybrid ontology approach is measured using improved precision, recall and f-measure values.
Keywords: Fuzzy Ontology Generation framework (FOGA); Keyword Matching; Semantic Web; Hybrid FOGA with keyword; Information Retrieval Method.

Yanhong Wang, Yigang Cen, Ruizhen Zhao, Yi Cen, Shaohai Hu, Viacheslav Voronin, Hengyou Wang, Separable vocabulary and feature fusion for image retrieval based on sparse representation, Neurocomputing, Volume 236, 2 May 2017, Pages 14-22, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.08.106.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216313807)
Abstract: Abstract
Visual vocabulary is the core of the Bag-of-visual-words (BOW) model in image retrieval. In order to ensure the retrieval accuracy, a large vocabulary is always used in traditional methods. However, a large vocabulary will lead to a low recall. In order to improve recall, vocabularies with medium sizes are proposed, but they will lead to a low accuracy. To address these two problems, we propose a new method for image retrieval based on feature fusion and sparse representation over separable vocabulary. Firstly, a large vocabulary is generated on the training dataset. Secondly, the vocabulary is separated into a number of vocabularies with medium sizes. Thirdly, for a given query image, we adopt sparse representation to select a vocabulary for retrieval. In the proposed method, the large vocabulary can guarantee a relatively high accuracy, while the vocabularies with medium sizes are responsible for high recall. Also, in order to reduce quantization error and improve recall, sparse representation scheme is used for visual words quantization. Moreover, both the local features and the global features are fused to improve the recall. Our proposed method is evaluated on two benchmark datasets, i.e., Coil20 and Holidays. Experiments show that our proposed method achieves good performance.
Keywords: Separable vocabulary; Sparse representation; Feature fusion; Image retrieval

Ling Ma, Xiabi Liu, Yan Gao, Yanfeng Zhao, Xinming Zhao, Chunwu Zhou, A new method of content based medical image retrieval and its applications to CT imaging sign retrieval, Journal of Biomedical Informatics, Volume 66, February 2017, Pages 148-158, ISSN 1532-0464, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2017.01.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046417300023)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper proposes a new method of content based medical image retrieval through considering fused, context-sensitive similarity. Firstly, we fuse the semantic and visual similarities between the query image and each image in the database as their pairwise similarities. Then, we construct a weighted graph whose nodes represent the images and edges measure their pairwise similarities. By using the shortest path algorithm over the weighted graph, we obtain a new similarity measure, context-sensitive similarity measure, between the query image and each database image to complete the retrieval process. Actually, we use the fused pairwise similarity to narrow down the semantic gap for obtaining a more accurate pairwise similarity measure, and spread it on the intrinsic data manifold to achieve the context-sensitive similarity for a better retrieval performance. The proposed method has been evaluated on the retrieval of the Common CT Imaging Signs of Lung Diseases (CISLs) and achieved not only better retrieval results but also the satisfactory computation efficiency.
Keywords: Medical image retrieval; Content-based image retrieval; Lung CT images; Semantic information; Visual information; Shortest path; Common CT Imaging Signs of Lung Diseases (CISLs)

Shuaiyi Shi, Tianhai Cheng, Xingfa Gu, Hao Chen, Hong Guo, Ying Wang, Fangwen Bao, Binren Xu, Wannan Wang, Xin Zuo, Can Meng, Xiaochuan Zhang, Synergy of MODIS and AATSR for better retrieval of aerosol optical depth and land surface directional reflectance, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 195, 15 June 2017, Pages 130-141, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2017.04.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425717301608)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a new algorithm to simultaneously retrieve Aerosol Optical Depth (AOD) and land surface Bidirectional Reflectance Distribution Function (BRDF) from Advanced Along-Track Scanning Radiometer (AATSR) by adopting gradient optimization method. Different from traditional method the approach presented here can perform simultaneous retrieval from each individual AATSR swath rather than multiple days. A theoretical sensitivity study proves the proposed method is insensitive to the distortion of initial BRDF. The presented algorithm is tested on AATSR data around four different Aerosol Robotic Network (AERONET) sites representing various types of land surface. Compared with the four selected AERONET sites' AOD and BRDF-derived albedo from AERONET-based Surface Reflectance Validation Network (ASRVN) data in corresponding four AERONET sites, the presented algorithm proves considerable accuracy for various type of land surface with correlation of AOD ranging from 0.647 to 0.911 and correlation of BRDF-derived albedo ranging from 0.483 to 0.944. The intersensor comparison with Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) 3 km AOD dark target product reveals high coverage rate of the presented method especially in bright surface or nonvegetation area and the correlation between the two sensors reaches up to 0.967. The improved estimation of BRDF from AATSR retrieval in AERONET Beijing site is compared with MODIS MCD43B1 product. The relative differences in hemispherical albedo calculated from average BRDF shape function parameters between AATSR and MODIS product are 1.33%, 1.52%, 2.60% and 4.28% at 550 nm, 670 nm, 870 nm and 1600 nm respectively.
Keywords: AATSR; AOD; BRDF; Individual swath retrieval; Gradient optimization method; Remote sensing

Lei Huang, Yuxin Peng, Cross-media retrieval by exploiting fine-grained correlation at entity level, Neurocomputing, Volume 236, 2 May 2017, Pages 123-133, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.07.067.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216313819)
Abstract: Abstract
Cross-media retrieval is to submit data of any media type, and get semantically relevant results of different media types. Most existing approaches project low-level features of cross-media data onto a unified feature space. However, some of these feature spaces usually have no explicit semantics, which ignore the intrinsic semantic information contained in the original media content. The others only have coarse-grained semantics suffering from the ambiguity of high-level concepts, because the coarse-grained correlation between low-level features and high-level concepts is simply utilized. Hence, the aforementioned approaches cannot generate the descriptive representation of media content, leading to reduced effectiveness to measure the semantic similarities among cross-media data. To address the above problems, we propose a novel approach to cross-media retrieval by exploiting the fine-grained correlation at the entity level and generating the unified descriptive representation. Concretely, the proposed approach first constructs an entity level with fine-grained semantics between low-level features and high-level concepts. Second, by minimizing (maximizing) the distances between media content with positive (negative) correlation at the entity level, we learn the distance-preserving entity projections (DPEP) and generate the unified descriptive representation of media content. Experimental results on two publicly available datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
Keywords: Cross-media retrieval; Entity level; Fine-grained correlation; Distance-preserving entity projection

Santosh K. Vishwakarma, Kamaljit I. Lakhtaria, Divya Bhatnagar, Akhilesh K. Sharma, Monolingual Information Retrieval using Terrier: FIRE 2010 Experiments Based on N-gram Indexing, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 57, 2015, Pages 815-820, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.07.484.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S187705091502013X)
Abstract: Abstract
N-gram based indexing technique has been proved as a useful technique for efficient document retrieval. We applied the n-gram approach and performed experiments in Hindi language text collections. The experiments are performed on the dataset of FIRE 2010 Hindi text collections. We used the Terrier open search engine for experimental purpose. Our experiments state that 4-gram gives the best results among all n-grams of different length. The results show an increase in value of mean average precision.
Keywords: Information Retrieval; N-gram; MAP; Pruning; Hindi Monolingual

Guixuan Zhang, Zhi Zeng, Shuwu Zhang, Yuan Zhang, Wanchun Wu, SIFT Matching with CNN Evidences for Particular Object Retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 238, 17 May 2017, Pages 399-409, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2017.01.081.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217302680)
Abstract: Abstract
Many object instance retrieval systems are typically based on matching of local features, such as SIFT. However, these local descriptors serve as low-level clues, which are not sufficiently distinctive to prevent false matches. Recently, deep convolutional neural networks (CNN) have shown their promise as a semantic-aware representation for many computer vision tasks. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to employ CNN evidences to improve the SIFT matching accuracy, which plays a critical role in improving the object retrieval performance. To weaken the interference of noise, we extract compact CNN representations from a number of generic object regions. Then a query-adaptive method is proposed to choose appropriate CNN evidence to verify each pre-matched SIFT pair. Two different visual matching verification functions are introduced and evaluated. Moreover, we investigate the suitability of fine-tuning the CNN for our proposed approach. Extensive experiments on benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our method for particular object retrieval. Our results compare favorably to the state-of-the-art methods with acceptable memory usage and query time.
Keywords: Particular object retrieval; Bag-of-words; SIFT matching; Convolutional neural networks

Xianye Li, Xiangfeng Meng, Yurong Wang, Xiulun Yang, Yongkai Yin, Xiang Peng, Wenqi He, Guoyan Dong, Hongyi Chen, Secret shared multiple-image encryption based on row scanning compressive ghost imaging and phase retrieval in the Fresnel domain, Optics and Lasers in Engineering, Volume 96, September 2017, Pages 7-16, ISSN 0143-8166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optlaseng.2017.04.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0143816617300052)
Abstract: Abstract
A multiple-image encryption method is proposed that is based on row scanning compressive ghost imaging, (t, n) threshold secret sharing, and phase retrieval in the Fresnel domain. In the encryption process, after wavelet transform and Arnold transform of the target image, the ciphertext matrix can be first detected using a bucket detector. Based on a (t, n) threshold secret sharing algorithm, the measurement key used in the row scanning compressive ghost imaging can be decomposed and shared into two pairs of sub-keys, which are then reconstructed using two phase-only mask (POM) keys with fixed pixel values, placed in the input plane and transform plane 2 of the phase retrieval scheme, respectively; and the other POM key in the transform plane 1 can be generated and updated by the iterative encoding of each plaintext image. In each iteration, the target image acts as the input amplitude constraint in the input plane. During decryption, each plaintext image possessing all the correct keys can be successfully decrypted by measurement key regeneration, compression algorithm reconstruction, inverse wavelet transformation, and Fresnel transformation. Theoretical analysis and numerical simulations both verify the feasibility of the proposed method.
Keywords: Compressive ghost imaging; Phase retrieval; Threshold secret sharing

Jing Zhang, Shengwei Feng, Da Li, Yongwei Gao, Zhihua Chen, Yubo Yuan, Image retrieval using the extended salient region, Information Sciences, Volume 399, August 2017, Pages 154-182, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2017.03.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025517305790)
Abstract: Abstract
The salient region is the most important part of an image. The salient portion in images also attracts the most attention when people search for images in large-scale datasets. However, to improve image retrieval accuracy, considering only the most salient object in an image is insufficient because the background also influences the accuracy of image retrieval. To address this issue, this paper proposes a novel concept called the extended salient region (ESR). First, the salient region of an input image is detected using a Region Contrast (RC) algorithm. Then, a polar coordinate system is constructed; the centroid of the salient region is set as the pole. Next, the regions surrounding the salient region are determined by the neighboring regions, moving in a counterclockwise direction. The resulting combination of the salient region and its surrounding regions is defined as the ESR. We extract the visual content from the ESR using the well-known Bag of Words (BoW) model based on Gabor, SIFT and HSVH features and propose a graph model of the visual content nodes to represent the input image. Then, we design a novel algorithm to perform matching between two images. We also define a new similarity measure by combining the similarities of the salient region and the surrounding regions using weights. Finally, to better evaluate the image retrieval accuracy, an improved measure called the mean label average precision (MLAP) is proposed. The results of experiments on three benchmark datasets (Corel, TU Darmstadt, and Caltech 101) demonstrate that our proposed ESR model and region-matching algorithm are highly effective at image retrieval, and can achieve more accurate query results than current state-of-the-art methods.
Keywords: Extended salient region; Region matching; MLAP; Image retrieval; Image processing

Ceyhun Celik, Hasan Sakir Bilge, Content based image retrieval with sparse representations and local feature descriptors : A comparative study, Pattern Recognition, Volume 68, August 2017, Pages 1-13, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2017.03.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320317301048)
Abstract: Abstract
Content Based Image Retrieval (CBIR) has been widely studied in the last two decades. Unlike text based image retrieval techniques, visual properties of images are used to obtain high level semantic information in CBIR. There is a gap between low level features and high level semantic information. This is called semantic gap and it is the most important problem in CBIR. The visual properties were extracted from low level features such as color, shape, texture and spatial information in early days. Local Feature Descriptors (LFDs) are more successful to increase performance of CBIR system. Then, a semantic bridge is built with high level semantic information. Sparse Representations (SRs) have become popular to achieve this aim in the last years.

In this study, CBIR models that use LFDs and SRs in literature are investigated in detail. The SRs and LFD extraction algorithms are tested and compared within a CBIR framework for different scenarios. Scale Invariant Feature Transform (SIFT), Speeded-Up Robust Features (SURF), Histograms of Oriented Gradients (HoG), Local Binary Pattern (LBP) and Local Ternary Pattern (LTP) are used to extract LFDs from images. Random Features, K-Means and K-Singular Value Decomposition (K-SVD) algorithms are used for dictionary learning and Orthogonal Matching Pursuit (OMP), Homotopy, Lasso, Elastic Net, Parallel Coordinate Descent (PCD) and Separable Surrogate Function (SSF) are used for coefficient learning. Finally, three methods recently proposed in literature (Online Dictionary Learning (ODL), Locality-constrained Linear Coding (LLC) and Feature-based Sparse Representation (FBSR)) are also tested and compared with our framework results. All test results are presented and discussed. As a conclusion, the most successful approach in our framework is to use LLC for Coil20 data set and FBSR for Corel1000 data set. We obtain 89% and 58% Mean Average Precision (MAP) for Coil20 and Corel1000, respectively.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval; Local feature descriptor; Sparse representation; Dictionary learning; Coefficient learning

Goran Glavaš, Jan Šnajder, Event graphs for information retrieval and multi-document summarization, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 41, Issue 15, 1 November 2014, Pages 6904-6916, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2014.04.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417414001985)
Abstract: Abstract
With the number of documents describing real-world events and event-oriented information needs rapidly growing on a daily basis, the need for efficient retrieval and concise presentation of event-related information is becoming apparent. Nonetheless, the majority of information retrieval and text summarization methods rely on shallow document representations that do not account for the semantics of events. In this article, we present event graphs, a novel event-based document representation model that filters and structures the information about events described in text. To construct the event graphs, we combine machine learning and rule-based models to extract sentence-level event mentions and determine the temporal relations between them. Building on event graphs, we present novel models for information retrieval and multi-document summarization. The information retrieval model measures the similarity between queries and documents by computing graph kernels over event graphs. The extractive multi-document summarization model selects sentences based on the relevance of the individual event mentions and the temporal structure of events. Experimental evaluation shows that our retrieval model significantly outperforms well-established retrieval models on event-oriented test collections, while the summarization model outperforms competitive models from shared multi-document summarization tasks.
Keywords: Event extraction; Information extraction; Information retrieval; Multi-document summarization; Natural language processing

Tariq Khwaileh, Richard Body, Ruth Herbert, Lexical retrieval after Arabic aphasia: Syntactic access and predictors of spoken naming, Journal of Neurolinguistics, Volume 42, May 2017, Pages 140-155, ISSN 0911-6044, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jneuroling.2017.01.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0911604416300781)
Abstract: Abstract
Research into anomia has been carried out in English and many Indo-European languages extensively, but not in Arabic. Previous studies have investigated predictors of successful lexical retrieval after anomia, and access to syntax during lexical retrieval. The aim of the current study is to examine impaired lexical retrieval in Arabic at two levels: predictors of lexical retrieval, and access to syntax during lexical retrieval, via checking whether syntactic cueing (using the definite article/əl-/'the' prior to nouns) facilitates noun retrieval in Arabic aphasia, with regard to naming speed and accuracy, and establishing the determinants of aphasic noun retrieval in Arabic. Three participants with anomia following CVA named 186 pictures from a published Arabic database in two conditions: bare noun condition, and determiner + noun condition. Participants' accuracy and reaction times were compared in both conditions. Furthermore, a multiple regression analysis was carried out to test the effect of psycholinguistic variables (visual complexity, name agreement, age of acquisition, imageability and other intrinsic variables) on successful lexical retrieval to determine predictors of Arabic noun retrieval after anomia. The production of the determiner + noun in picture naming facilitated spoken naming in all three participants. Nouns produced with the determiner were produced faster and more accurately than their counterparts produced without the determiner. The two participants with agrammatism produced morpho-syntactic errors in the bare noun condition, but not in the determiner + noun condition, suggesting that the determiner sets up a noun phrase frame with a slot for the noun to be filled, resulting in responses that are faster and more accurate. Age of acquisition and imageability were the only two variables that had influence across the participants. These results have theoretical and clinical implications for lexical retrieval models.
Keywords: Aphasia; Anomia; Arabic; Lexical retrieval; Syntax; Word grammar; Determiner; Noun phrase; Spoken production; Picture naming; Predictors; Determinants; Psycholinguistics; Neurolinguistics

Wanqing Zhao, Hangzai Luo, Jinye Peng, Jianping Fan, Spatial pyramid deep hashing for large-scale image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 243, 21 June 2017, Pages 166-173, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2017.03.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217305167)
Abstract: Abstract
Effective feature representations and similarity measurements are crucial for large-scale image retrieval, and conventional methods often learn hash functions from a predefined hand-crafted feature space. Meanwhile, the spatial structure in raw images always lost in most previous methods. Encouraged by the recent advances in convolutional neural networks (CNNs), a novel Spatial Pyramid Deep Hashing (SPDH) algorithm is developed for the task of fast image retrieval. In our SPDH algorithm, the CNN with a spatial pyramid pooling and a locally-connected layer with binary activation functions is utilized to build the end-to-end relation between the raw image data and the binary hashing codes for fast indexing. Different from the fully-connected layer, the locally-connected layer can consider each local spatial bin as an independent unit and only connect the local bin to preserve the spatial pyramid structure for hash codes. The learning of both the hash function and the feature representations are jointly optimized via backward propagation with classification or similarity loss function on the large-scale labeled dataset such as ImageNet. Moreover, a spatial pyramid binary pattern matching algorithm is developed to achieve partial local similar matching among the images. Our experimental results have shown that our SPDH method can outperform several state-of-the-art hashing algorithms on the CIFAR-10, SIVAL and the Oxford buildings datasets.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Hashing learning; Convolutional neural networks; Spatial pyramid structure

M. Thangaraj, G. Sujatha, An architectural design for effective information retrieval in semantic web, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 41, Issue 18, 15 December 2014, Pages 8225-8233, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2014.07.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417414004151)
Abstract: Abstract
The current web IR system retrieves relevant information only based on the keywords which is inadequate for that vast amount of data. It provides limited capabilities to capture the concepts of the user needs and the relation between the keywords. These limitations lead to the idea of the user conceptual search which includes concepts and meanings. This study deals with the Semantic Based Information Retrieval System for a semantic web search and presented with an improved algorithm to retrieve the information in a more efficient way.

This architecture takes as input a list of plain keywords provided by the user and the query is converted into semantic query. This conversion is carried out with the help of the domain concepts of the pre-existing domain ontologies and a third party thesaurus and discover semantic relationship between them in runtime. The relevant information for the semantic query is retrieved and ranked according to the relevancy with the help of an improved algorithm. The performance analysis shows that the proposed system can improve the accuracy and effectiveness for retrieving relevant web documents compared to the existing systems.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Semantic web; Semantic search; Ontology; Semantic query

Sadegh Fadaei, Rassoul Amirfattahi, Mohammad Reza Ahmadzadeh, Local derivative radial patterns: A new texture descriptor for content-based image retrieval, Signal Processing, Volume 137, August 2017, Pages 274-286, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2017.02.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168417300695)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we propose a novel local pattern descriptor called Local Derivative Radial Pattern (LDRP) for texture representation in content-based image retrieval. All prior local patterns are based on gray-level difference of pixels located in a square or circle. Since many of the actual textures can be represented by intensity relationship of pixels along a line, these methods do not have a suitable ability to represent texture information. In prior methods, difference between referenced pixel and its adjacent pixel is encoded with two, three or four values which leads to information loss of the image. The proposed LDRP is based on gray-level difference of pixels along a line and their weighted combinations. In addition, multi-level coding in different directions is used instead of binary coding. The performance of the proposed method is compared with prior methods including local binary pattern (LBP), local ternary pattern (LTP), local derivative pattern (LDP), local tetra pattern (LTrP) and local vector pattern (LVP). The proposed LDRP outperforms all mentioned prior methods by at least 3.82% and 5.17% in terms of average precision on Brodatz and VisTex databases, respectively.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval (CBIR); Texture descriptor; Local patterns; Local derivative radial pattern (LDRP)

Ming Zhang, Ke Zhang, Qinghe Feng, Jianzhong Wang, Jun Kong, Yinghua Lu, A novel image retrieval method based on hybrid information descriptors, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 25, Issue 7, October 2014, Pages 1574-1587, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2014.06.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320314001151)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we propose a novel image retrieval method called hybrid information descriptors (HIDs) consisting of mutual information descriptors (MIDs) and self information descriptors (SIDs). Based on the physiological structure of human eyes and visual perception mechanism, HIDs are designed to explore the internal correlations among different image feature spaces with image structure and multi-scale analysis, not only characterizing the low-level features, such as color, shape and texture, but also imitating the process of visual information transfer and perception in high-level understanding with the help of the proposed visual optimization model for feature fusion. Comparing with other existing methods applied to content-based image retrieval (CBIR) on four datasets, the usefulness and effectiveness of the HIDs are shown. Extensive experimental results can also demonstrate this.
Keywords: Hybrid information descriptors (HIDs); Mutual information descriptors (MIDs); Self information descriptors (SIDs); Visual perception mechanism; Image feature spaces; Multi-scale analysis; Content-based image retrieval (CBIR); Feature fusion

Estrella Olmedo, Justino Martínez, Antonio Turiel, Joaquim Ballabrera-Poy, Marcos Portabella, Debiased non-Bayesian retrieval: A novel approach to SMOS Sea Surface Salinity, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 193, May 2017, Pages 103-126, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2017.02.023.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425717300822)
Abstract: Abstract
The Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS) mission has provided a unique remote sensing capability for observing key variables of the hydrological cycle, such as the Sea Surface Salinity (SSS). However, due to some limitations related to the instrument interferometric concept and its challenging data processing, SMOS SSS maps still display significant artifacts and biases, especially close to the coast, mainly due to the presence of Radio Frequency Interferences (RFI) and Land-sea contamination (LSC). In this paper, a new methodology for filtering salinity retrievals and correcting for spatial biases is introduced and validated.
Keywords: Soil moisture and ocean salinity (SMOS); Sea Surface Salinity; Salinity retrieval; Remote sensing; Physical oceanography

M. Gómez, I. Lizasoain, C. Moreno, Information retrieval from interval-valued fuzzy automata through Kα operators, Fuzzy Sets and Systems, Available online 4 April 2017, ISSN 0165-0114, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fss.2017.03.018.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165011417301379)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, fuzzy finite transition systems and fuzzy transformation semigroups are analyzed when the truth structure is the set of all the closed real subintervals contained in [ 0 , 1 ] . Our approach involves the application of interval-valued fuzzy sets techniques in order to retrieve the information given by the transition functions of the considered automata. In particular, a characterization of those Atanassov's K α operators which provide a fuzzy transformation semigroup starting from an interval-valued fuzzy automaton is achieved. Conversely, different ways of getting an interval-valued fuzzy transformation semigroup starting from two real fuzzy automata are compared.
Keywords: Interval-valued fuzzy sets; Fuzzy finite state machines; Fuzzy finite transition systems; Atanassov's K α operators; Fuzzy transformation semigroups

Alan F. Smeaton, Edel O'Connor, Fiona Regan, Multimedia information retrieval and environmental monitoring: Shared perspectives on data fusion, Ecological Informatics, Volume 23, September 2014, Pages 118-125, ISSN 1574-9541, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecoinf.2013.10.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574954113000988)
Abstract: Abstract
Computer-based remote monitoring of our environment is increasingly based on combining data derived from in-situ-sensors with data derived from remote sources, such as satellite images or CCTV. In such deployments it is necessary to continuously monitor the accuracy of each of the sensor data streams so that we can account for sudden failures of sensors, or errors due to calibration drive or biofouling. In multimedia information retrieval (MMIR), we search through archives of multimedia artefacts like video programs, by implementing several independent retrieval systems or agents, and we combine the outputs of each retrieval agent in order to generate an overall ranking. In this paper we draw parallels between these seemingly very different applications and show how they share several similarities. In the case of environmental monitoring we also need some mechanism by which we can establish the trust and reputation of each contributing sensor, though this is something we do not need in MMIR. In this paper we present an outline of a trust and reputation framework we have developed and deployed for monitoring the performance of sensors in a heterogeneous sensor network.
Keywords: Sensor data fusion; Multimedia information retrieval; Trust and reputation framework; Environmental monitoring

Pu Ren, Yachun Fan, Mingquan Zhou, Zhe Wang, Guoguang Du, Lu Qian, Rapid three-dimensional scene modeling by sketch retrieval and auto-arrangement, Computers & Graphics, Volume 64, May 2017, Pages 26-36, ISSN 0097-8493, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cag.2017.02.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0097849317300183)
Abstract: Abstract
The existing three-dimensional (3D) object layout methods are focused mainly on indoor scenes and they are limited for outdoor applications. In this study, we propose a data-driven method for outdoor scene modeling by using fast retrieval and automatic optimization layout techniques. Unlike the current methods, we first employ an improved manifold ranking algorithm in the sketch-based 3D model retrieval stage, which achieves higher accuracy. Next, according to the particular properties of outdoor architectures, specialized constraints are then proposed to define an energy function, which meets both the functional and aesthetic requirements. Finally, we cast the auto-arrangement as a combinatorial optimization problem, which we solve using an optimization algorithm. In contrast to the earlier version of this method, which was presented at Cyberworlds 2016, this extended version combines simulated annealing and particle swarm optimization algorithms, which have the advantages of rapid convergence and avoiding becoming trapped by local minima. Our experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method is more intuitive and effective for modeling 3D scenes, and can be employed in the actual development of game scenes.
Keywords: Automatic layout; Game development; Simulated annealing; Sketch-based retrieval; Three-dimensional outdoor scene

Anne F. Eder, Mindy Goldman, Postdonation Information and Blood Component Retrievals: Realigning Blood Center and Hospital Actions Based on Risk Assessment, Transfusion Medicine Reviews, Volume 28, Issue 4, October 2014, Pages 226-234, ISSN 0887-7963, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tmrv.2014.09.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0887796314000728)
Abstract: Abstract
Blood centers often receive information from individuals after blood donation that should have resulted in their deferral and may attempt to retrieve distributed blood components that did not meet all quality standards and regulations. Typically, the information is discovered or reported only after the components from the donation have been transfused. Blood centers may notify the transfusion service and provide a statement of the potential risk, if any, associated with the blood components, but the transfusion service must decide if further investigation, notification of the transfusing physician, or counseling of the patient is warranted. Currently, postdonation information (PDI) affects an estimated 1 in 600 donations in the United States. Despite the regularity with which PDI occurs, there has been little analysis of the main sources of PDI, associated transfusion risk, or the actual benefit of various actions taken as a result of PDI. However, blood centers attempt to retrieve thousands of components each year for PDI: actions that can cause confusion, concern, and complaints from hospitals and transfusion services. Postdonation information is largely a reflection of the inherent limitations of the current donor screening process, which is error-prone and uses broad, precautionary questions to guard against theoretical or extremely remote risks. This article reviews the most commonly reported PDI and available information on the possible risk associated with the transfused components from the involved donations, to formulate a framework for blood center retrieval actions and hospital notification that is consistent with current regulations and commensurate with the likelihood of adverse outcomes associated with the most commonly reported PDI.
Keywords: Postdonation information; Recall; Market withdrawal; Retrieval

Laure Soulier, Lynda Tamine, Wahiba Bahsoun, On domain expertise-based roles in collaborative information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 50, Issue 5, September 2014, Pages 752-774, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2014.04.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457314000302)
Abstract: Abstract
Collaborative information retrieval involves retrieval settings in which a group of users collaborates to satisfy the same underlying need. One core issue of collaborative IR models involves either supporting collaboration with adapted tools or developing IR models for a multiple-user context and providing a ranked list of documents adapted for each collaborator. In this paper, we introduce the first document-ranking model supporting collaboration between two users characterized by roles relying on different domain expertise levels. Specifically, we propose a two-step ranking model: we first compute a document-relevance score, taking into consideration domain expertise-based roles. We introduce specificity and novelty factors into language-model smoothing, and then we assign, via an Expectation–Maximization algorithm, documents to the best-suited collaborator. Our experiments employ a simulation-based framework of collaborative information retrieval and show the significant effectiveness of our model at different search levels.
Keywords: Collaborative information retrieval; Domain expertise; Ranking model; Learning-method

Nils Bore, Rares Ambrus, Patric Jensfelt, John Folkesson, Efficient retrieval of arbitrary objects from long-term robot observations, Robotics and Autonomous Systems, Volume 91, May 2017, Pages 139-150, ISSN 0921-8890, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.robot.2016.12.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0921889016308466)
Abstract: Abstract
We present a novel method for efficient querying and retrieval of arbitrarily shaped objects from large amounts of unstructured 3D point cloud data. Our approach first performs a convex segmentation of the data after which local features are extracted and stored in a feature dictionary. We show that the representation allows efficient and reliable querying of the data. To handle arbitrarily shaped objects, we propose a scheme which allows incremental matching of segments based on similarity to the query object. Further, we adjust the feature metric based on the quality of the query results to improve results in a second round of querying. We perform extensive qualitative and quantitative experiments on two datasets for both segmentation and retrieval, validating the results using ground truth data. Comparison with other state of the art methods further enforces the validity of the proposed method. Finally, we also investigate how the density and distribution of the local features within the point clouds influence the quality of the results.
Keywords: Mapping; Mobile robotics; Point cloud; Segmentation; Retrieval

Zhihua Xia, Neal N. Xiong, Athanasios V. Vasilakos, Xingming Sun, EPCBIR: An efficient and privacy-preserving content-based image retrieval scheme in cloud computing, Information Sciences, Volume 387, May 2017, Pages 195-204, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2016.12.030.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025516321971)
Abstract: Abstract
The content-based image retrieval (CBIR) has been widely studied along with the increasing importance of images in our daily life. Compared with the text documents, images consume much more storage and thus are very suitable to be stored on the cloud servers. The outsourcing of CBIR to the cloud servers can be a very typical service in cloud computing. For the privacy-preserving purposes, sensitive images, such as medical and personal images, need to be encrypted before being outsourced, which will cause the CBIR technologies in plaintext domain unusable. In this paper, we propose a scheme that supports CBIR over the encrypted images without revealing the sensitive information to the cloud server. Firstly, the feature vectors are extracted to represent the corresponding images. Then, the pre-filter tables are constructed with the locality-sensitive hashing to increase the search efficiency. Next, the feature vectors are protected by the secure k-nearest neighbor (kNN) algorithm. The security analysis and experiments show the security and efficiency of the proposed scheme.
Keywords: Searchable encryption; Content-based image retrieval; Secure k-nearest neighbors algorithm; Locality-sensitive hashing

Eman Negm, Samir AbdelRahman, Reem Bahgat, PREFCA: A portal retrieval engine based on formal concept analysis, Information Processing & Management, Volume 53, Issue 1, January 2017, Pages 203-222, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2016.08.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457316303569)
Abstract: Abstract
The web is a network of linked sites whereby each site either forms a physical portal or a standalone page. In the former case, the portal presents an access point to its embedded web pages that coherently present a specific topic. In the latter case, there are millions of standalone web pages, that are scattered throughout the web, having the same topic and could be conceptually linked together to form virtual portals. Search engines have been developed to help users in reaching the adequate pages in an efficient and effective manner. All the known current search engine techniques rely on the web page as the basic atomic search unit. They ignore the conceptual links, that reveal the implicit web related meanings, among the retrieved pages. However, building a semantic model for the whole portal may contain more semantic information than a model of scattered individual pages. In addition, user queries can be poor and contain imprecise terms that do not reflect the real user intention. Consequently, retrieving the standalone individual pages that are directly related to the query may not satisfy the user’s need. In this paper, we propose PREFCA, a Portal Retrieval Engine based on Formal Concept Analysis that relies on the portal as the main search unit. PREFCA consists of three phases: First, the information extraction phase that is concerned with extracting portal’s semantic data. Second, the formal concept analysis phase that utilizes formal concept analysis to discover the conceptual links among portal and attributes. Finally, the information retrieval phase where we propose a portal ranking method to retrieve ranked pairs of portals and embedded pages. Additionally, we apply the network analysis rules to output some portal characteristics. We evaluated PREFCA using two data sets, namely the Forum for Information Retrieval Evaluation 2010 and ClueWeb09 (category B) test data, for physical and virtual portals respectively. PREFCA proves higher F-measure accuracy, better Mean Average Precision ranking and comparable network analysis and efficiency results than other search engine approaches, namely Term Frequency Inverse Document Frequency (TF-IDF), Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA), and BM25 techniques. As well, it gains high Mean Average Precision in comparison with learning to rank techniques. Moreover, PREFCA also gains better reach time than Carrot as a well-known topic-based search engine.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Formal concept analysis; Network analysis; Portal retrieval

Marco Angelini, Nicola Ferro, Giuseppe Santucci, Gianmaria Silvello, VIRTUE: A visual tool for information retrieval performance evaluation and failure analysis, Journal of Visual Languages & Computing, Volume 25, Issue 4, August 2014, Pages 394-413, ISSN 1045-926X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvlc.2013.12.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1045926X13001006)
Abstract: Abstract
Objective: Information Retrieval (IR) is strongly rooted in experimentation where new and better ways to measure and interpret the behavior of a system are key to scientific advancement. This paper presents an innovative visualization environment: Visual Information Retrieval Tool for Upfront Evaluation (VIRTUE), which eases and makes more effective the experimental evaluation process.

Methods: VIRTUE supports and improves performance analysis and failure analysis.

Performance analysis: VIRTUE offers interactive visualizations based on well-known IR metrics allowing us to explore system performances and to easily grasp the main problems of the system.

Failure analysis: VIRTUE develops visual features and interaction, allowing researchers and developers to easily spot critical regions of a ranking and grasp possible causes of a failure.

Results: VIRTUE was validated through a user study involving IR experts. The study reports on (a) the scientific relevance and innovation and (b) the comprehensibility and efficacy of the visualizations.

Conclusion: VIRTUE eases the interaction with experimental results, supports users in the evaluation process and reduces the user effort.

Practice: VIRTUE will be used by IR analysts to analyze and understand experimental results.

Implications: VIRTUE improves the state-of-the-art in the evaluation practice and integrates visualization and IR research fields in an innovative way.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Experimental evaluation; Visual analytics; Performance analysis; Failure analysis

Cristina Jiménez Noblejas, Antonio Perianes Rodríguez, Recuperación y visualización de información en Web of Science y Scopus: una aproximación práctica, Investigación Bibliotecológica: Archivonomía, Bibliotecología e Información, Volume 28, Issue 64, September–December 2014, Pages 15-31, ISSN 0187-358X, https://doi.org/10.1016/S0187-358X(14)70907-4.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0187358X14709074)
Abstract: Abstract
The emergence of Scopus (Elsevier) in November 2004 marked a major shift in the international market of databases exerting pressure on the monopoly traditionally held by Web of Science (Thomson Reuters). This paper aims to carry out an analysis of the graphical interfaces of both products as a key factor in the process of information retrieval and visualization. The methodology entails the execution of a series of searches in order to understand the respective performances of Scopus and Web of Science when put through the paces of searching, locating and retrieving information. Although the two databases exhibit deficiencies, results show that Scopus more effectively meets informational requirements in the indexing process by author.
Palabras clave: Web of Science; Scopus; Recuperación de Información; Interfaces Gráficas de Usuario; Web of Science; Scopus; Information Retrieval; Graphical User Interfaces

Jin Zhang, Qiang Wei, Guoqing Chen, A heuristic approach for λ-representative information retrieval from large-scale data, Information Sciences, Volume 277, 1 September 2014, Pages 825-841, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2014.03.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025514003016)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieving representative information from large-scale data becomes an important research issue nowadays, especially in the context of mobile business/search where the screen size and navigability are limited. This paper focuses on certain aspects of representativeness in database queries and web search, and proposes an approach to extracting a subset of results from original search results in light of high coverage and low redundancy. In the paper, the notion of λ-represent is introduced, which enables us to describe the λ-represent relationship between the sets of data objects. Then, the λ-representative problem is formulated as an extension of the typical set covering problem, which leads to developing a heuristic approach (namely, LamRep) to coping with the problem effectively and efficiently. Notably, LamRep is incorporated with a “vote” mechanism, enhanced with an algorithmic acceleration strategy. Data experiments on benchmark data and a real-world example show that LamRep outperforms the other approaches.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Information representativeness; Web search; Heuristic algorithm

Ziheng Sun, Liping Di, Gil Heo, Chen Zhang, Hui Fang, Peng Yue, Lili Jiang, Xicheng Tan, Liying Guo, Li Lin, GeoFairy: Towards a one-stop and location based Service for Geospatial Information Retrieval, Computers, Environment and Urban Systems, Volume 62, March 2017, Pages 156-167, ISSN 0198-9715, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compenvurbsys.2016.11.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S019897151630388X)
Abstract: Abstract
It is still a great challenge to efficiently deliver dynamic and heterogeneous Earth observation (EO) information to users based on their real time locations. However, the rapidly evolving techniques create a chance to meet the challenge. This paper proposes a framework to realize a one-stop and location based service (LBS) for geospatial information (GI) retrieval on mobile platforms. The framework originally integrates a number of state-of-the-art techniques with geospatial data resources and let them cooperate together to provide a robust and highly available LBS. Cloud platform is used to deploy the server module. A location enabled load balancing algorithm is presented to balance the cloud instance VMs on behalf of LBS. A system named GeoFairy is implemented. It provides a one-stop service for gathering and delivering twelve kinds of GI on real time locations. Two Apps are built for the major mobile ecosystems: iOS and Android. Many tests, including a stress test, have been made via a number of mobile devices at various locations. The results demonstrate that GeoFairy is capable of one-stop delivering real-time GI to users and significantly reducing costs on information searching and retrieving. This feature is very helpful in many scenarios such as disaster responding and military actions. This research paves a way on both theoretical and practical aspects for researchers and developers to realize operational mobile applications for one stop and location based GI retrieval.
Keywords: One-stop service; LBS; Geospatial web service; Geospatial cloud; Geospatial mobile application

Pavel Pecina, Ondřej Dušek, Lorraine Goeuriot, Jan Hajič, Jaroslava Hlaváčová, Gareth J.F. Jones, Liadh Kelly, Johannes Leveling, David Mareček, Michal Novák, Martin Popel, Rudolf Rosa, Aleš Tamchyna, Zdeňka Urešová, Adaptation of machine translation for multilingual information retrieval in the medical domain, Artificial Intelligence in Medicine, Volume 61, Issue 3, July 2014, Pages 165-185, ISSN 0933-3657, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.artmed.2014.01.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0933365714000062)
Abstract: AbstractObjective
We investigate machine translation (MT) of user search queries in the context of cross-lingual information retrieval (IR) in the medical domain. The main focus is on techniques to adapt MT to increase translation quality; however, we also explore MT adaptation to improve effectiveness of cross-lingual IR.
Methods and data
Our MT system is Moses, a state-of-the-art phrase-based statistical machine translation system. The IR system is based on the BM25 retrieval model implemented in the Lucene search engine. The MT techniques employed in this work include in-domain training and tuning, intelligent training data selection, optimization of phrase table configuration, compound splitting, and exploiting synonyms as translation variants. The IR methods include morphological normalization and using multiple translation variants for query expansion. The experiments are performed and thoroughly evaluated on three language pairs: Czech–English, German–English, and French–English. MT quality is evaluated on data sets created within the Khresmoi project and IR effectiveness is tested on the CLEF eHealth 2013 data sets.
Results
The search query translation results achieved in our experiments are outstanding – our systems outperform not only our strong baselines, but also Google Translate and Microsoft Bing Translator in direct comparison carried out on all the language pairs. The baseline BLEU scores increased from 26.59 to 41.45 for Czech–English, from 23.03 to 40.82 for German–English, and from 32.67 to 40.82 for French–English. This is a 55% improvement on average. In terms of the IR performance on this particular test collection, a significant improvement over the baseline is achieved only for French–English. For Czech–English and German–English, the increased MT quality does not lead to better IR results.
Conclusions
Most of the MT techniques employed in our experiments improve MT of medical search queries. Especially the intelligent training data selection proves to be very successful for domain adaptation of MT. Certain improvements are also obtained from German compound splitting on the source language side. Translation quality, however, does not appear to correlate with the IR performance – better translation does not necessarily yield better retrieval. We discuss in detail the contribution of the individual techniques and state-of-the-art features and provide future research directions.
Keywords: Statistical machine translation; Domain adaptation of statistical machine translation; Intelligent training data selection for machine translation; Compound splitting; Cross-language information retrieval; Medical query translation

Deng-Yiv Chiu, Ya-Chen Pan, Topic knowledge map and knowledge structure constructions with genetic algorithm, information retrieval, and multi-dimension scaling method, Knowledge-Based Systems, Volume 67, September 2014, Pages 412-428, ISSN 0950-7051, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2014.03.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705114000914)
Abstract: Abstract
This work presents a novel automated approach to construct topic knowledge maps with knowledge structures, followed by its application to an internationally renowned journal. Knowledge structures are diagrams showing the important components of knowledge in study. Knowledge maps identify the locations of objects and illustrate the relationship among objects. In our study, the important components derived from knowledge structures are used as objects to be spotted in a topic knowledge map. The purpose of our knowledge structures is to find out the major topics serving as subjects of article collections as well as related methods employed in the published papers. The purpose of topic knowledge maps is to transform high-dimensional objects (topic, paper, and cited frequency) into a 2-dimensional space to help understand complicated relatedness among high-dimensional objects, such as the related degree between an article and a topic.

First, we adopt independent chi-square test to examine the independence of topics and apply genetic algorithm to choose topics selection with best fitness value to construct knowledge structures.

Additionally, high-dimensional relationships among objects are transformed into a 2-dimensional space using the multi-dimension scaling method. The optimal transformation coordinate matrix is also determined by using a genetic algorithm to preserve the original relations among objects and construct appropriate topic knowledge maps.
Keywords: Knowledge structure; Topic knowledge map; Information retrieval; Genetic algorithm; Independent chi-square; Multi-dimension scaling

A. Sigov, V. Baranyuk, V. Nechaev, A. Melikhov, O. Smirnova, Improving the Quality of Bionic Resource Retrieval by Visualizing a Specific Bionic-oriented Thesaurus, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 103, 2017, Pages 489-494, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2017.01.032.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050917300339)
Abstract: Abstract
This article describes the ability to improve the quality of information resources of search through the use of a specialized thesaurus. The possibilities of using a graphical representation of a thesaurus in the field of bionics and bionic technology, as well as the approach used for automated formation of a multilingual thesaurus primary are considered.
Keywords: intellectual system; bionics; bionic technologies; knowledge engineering; information retrieval thesaurus

Fei Luo, Jian Zheng, Xuan Sun, Wei-ke Deng, Bao ming Li, Fang Liu, Prelimbic cortex extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 activation is required for memory retrieval of long-term inhibitory avoidance, Brain Research, Volume 1661, 15 April 2017, Pages 88-99, ISSN 0006-8993, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2017.02.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899317300616)
Abstract: Abstract
Neural mechanism underlying memory retrieval has been extensively studied in the hippocampus and amygdala. However, little is known about the role of medial prefrontal cortex in long-term memory retrieval. We evaluate this issue in one-trial step-through inhibitory avoidance (IA) paradigm. Our results showed that, 1) inactivation of mPFC by local infusion of GABAA-receptor agonist muscimol caused severe deficits in retrieval of 1-day and 7-day but had no effects on 2-h inhibitory avoidance memory; 2) the protein level of phosphorylated-ERK1/2 in mPFC were significantly increased following retrieval of 1-day and 7-day IA memory, so did the numbers of phosphorylated-ERK (pERK) and phosphorylated-CREB (pCREB) labeled neurons; 3) intra-mPFC infusion of ERK kinase inhibitor PD98095 significantly reduced phosphorylated ERK1/2 levels and phosphorylated-ERK1/2 and phosphorylated-CREB labeled cells, and severely impaired retrieval of 7-day IA memory when the drugs were administrated 30 min prior to test. The present study provides evidence that retrieval of long-lasting memory for inhibitory avoidance requires mPFC and involves the ERK-CREB signaling cascade.
Keywords: Medial prefrontal cortex; Memory retrieval; Inhibitory avoidance; ERK; CREB; Rat

Genevieve Hill, Srinidhi Nagaraja, Behrooz A. Akbarnia, Jeff Pawelek, Paul Sponseller, Peter Sturm, John Emans, Pablo Bonangelino, Joshua Cockrum, William Kane, Maureen Dreher, Retrieval and clinical analysis of distraction-based dual growing rod constructs for early onset scoliosis, The Spine Journal, Available online 26 April 2017, ISSN 1529-9430, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spinee.2017.04.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1529943017301778)
Abstract: AbstractBackground
Growing rod constructs are an important contribution for treating patients with Early Onset Scoliosis. These devices experience high failure rates, including rod fractures.
Purpose
The objective of this study was to identify the failure mechanism of retrieved growing rods, and to identify differences between patients with failed and intact constructs.
Study Design/Setting
Growing rod patients who had implant removal and were previously enrolled in a multicenter registry were eligible for this study.
Patient Sample
Forty (40) dual-rod constructs were retrieved from 36 patients across four centers, and 34 of those constructs met the inclusion criteria. Eighteen (18) constructs failed due to rod fracture. Sixteen (16) intact constructs were removed due to final fusion (n = 7), implant exchange (n = 5), infection (n = 2), or implant prominence (n = 2).
Outcome Measures
Analyses of clinical registry data, radiographs, and retrievals.
Methods
Retrievals were analyzed with microscopic imaging (optical and scanning electron microscopy) for areas of mechanical failure, damage, and corrosion. Failure analyses were conducted on the fracture surfaces to identify failure mechanism(s). Statistical analyses were performed to determine significant differences between the failed and intact groups.
Results
The failed rods fractured due to bending fatigue under flexion motion. Construct configuration and loading dictate high bending stresses at three distinct locations along the construct: 1) mid-construct, 2) adjacent to the tandem connector, or 3) adjacent to the distal anchor foundation. In addition, high torques used to insert set screws may create an initiation point for fatigue. Syndromic scoliosis, prior rod fractures, increase in patient weight, and rigid constructs consisting of tandem connectors and multiple crosslinks were associated with failure.
Conclusions
This is the first study to examine retrieved, failed growing rod implants across multiple centers. Our analysis found that rod fractures are due to bending fatigue, and that stress concentrations play an important role in rod fractures. Recommendations are made regarding surgical technique such as use of torque-limiting wrenches and/or not exceeding the prescribed torques. Additional recommendations include frequent rod replacement in select patients during scheduled surgeries.
Keywords: retrieval analysis; growing rod; pediatric; spinal instrumentation; early onset scoliosis; fractography; failure analysis; growth friendly technique

Zeinab E. Attia, Ahmed M. Gadallah, Hesham M. Hefny, An Enhanced Multi-view Fuzzy Information Retrieval Model based on Linguistics, IERI Procedia, Volume 7, 2014, Pages 90-95, ISSN 2212-6678, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ieri.2014.08.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212667814000343)
Abstract: Abstract
The paper proposes a linguistic based multi-view fuzzy ontology information retrieval model. It deals with multi-view linguistic based queries in multi domains. Such linguistics are user defined, reflecting his subjective view. The model also proposes a ranking algorithm that ranks the set of relevant documents according to some criteria such as their relevance degree, confidence degree, and updating degree.
Keywords: Fuzzy Ontology; Fuzzy Ontology Information retrieval; Information Retrieval; document ranking; Linguistic based query answering system.

, Editorial – patent information, Intellectual Property (IP) management and information retrieval, World Patent Information, Volume 48, March 2017, Pages A1-A4, ISSN 0172-2190, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wpi.2017.03.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0172219017300327)

Peng Zhang, Dawei Song, Jun Wang, Yuexian Hou, Bias–variance analysis in estimating true query model for information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 50, Issue 1, January 2014, Pages 199-217, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2013.08.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457313000940)
Abstract: Abstract
The estimation of query model is an important task in language modeling (LM) approaches to information retrieval (IR). The ideal estimation is expected to be not only effective in terms of high mean retrieval performance over all queries, but also stable in terms of low variance of retrieval performance across different queries. In practice, however, improving effectiveness can sacrifice stability, and vice versa. In this paper, we propose to study this tradeoff from a new perspective, i.e., the bias–variance tradeoff, which is a fundamental theory in statistics. We formulate the notion of bias–variance regarding retrieval performance and estimation quality of query models. We then investigate several estimated query models, by analyzing when and why the bias–variance tradeoff will occur, and how the bias and variance can be reduced simultaneously. A series of experiments on four TREC collections have been conducted to systematically evaluate our bias–variance analysis. Our approach and results will potentially form an analysis framework and a novel evaluation strategy for query language modeling.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Query language model; Bias–variance

Homa B. Hashemi, Azadeh Shakery, Mining a Persian–English comparable corpus for cross-language information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 50, Issue 2, March 2014, Pages 384-398, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2013.10.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457313001027)
Abstract: Abstract
Knowledge acquisition and bilingual terminology extraction from multilingual corpora are challenging tasks for cross-language information retrieval. In this study, we propose a novel method for mining high quality translation knowledge from our constructed Persian–English comparable corpus, University of Tehran Persian–English Comparable Corpus (UTPECC). We extract translation knowledge based on Term Association Network (TAN) constructed from term co-occurrences in same language as well as term associations in different languages. We further propose a post-processing step to do term translation validity check by detecting the mistranslated terms as outliers. Evaluation results on two different data sets show that translating queries using UTPECC and using the proposed methods significantly outperform simple dictionary-based methods. Moreover, the experimental results show that our methods are especially effective in translating Out-Of-Vocabulary terms and also expanding query words based on their associated terms.
Keywords: Comparable corpora; Cross-language information retrieval; Term association network; Translation validity check

B. Bazeer Ahamed, T. Ramkumar, An intelligent web search framework for performing efficient retrieval of data, Computers & Electrical Engineering, Volume 56, November 2016, Pages 289-299, ISSN 0045-7906, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2016.09.033.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790616304335)
Abstract: Abstract
There are numerous search engines available in today's world to search and retrieve the required information. However retrieval of meaningful and appropriate formation as per the user requirement is always a challenging task. The foremost intention of any search engine is to provide the information with in a quick span of time. Since the nature of data available in World-Wide-Web shows heterogeneity in common and the sources of data are also distinct with each other, issues pertaining to schema structure and data representational are also there. In such circumstances, to eliminate inconsistencies and for enabling seamless integration of multiple data sources while retrieving web data, an efficient web search mechanism that fulfils the customer requirement is always needed. To enable the integration of multiple data sources while performing efficient retrieval of web data, an intelligent web search framework has been proposed in this paper.
Key words: Web content; Search engines; Web data; Multiple data source; Information retrieval

Parantapa Goswami, Eric Gaussier, Massih-Reza Amini, Exploring the space of information retrieval term scoring functions, Information Processing & Management, Volume 53, Issue 2, March 2017, Pages 454-472, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2016.11.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457316306100)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper we are interested in finding good IR scoring functions by exploring the space of all possible IR functions. Earlier approaches to do so however only explore a small sub-part of the space, with no control on which part is explored and which is not. We aim here at a more systematic exploration by first defining a grammar to generate possible IR functions up to a certain length (the length being related to the number of elements, variables and operations, involved in a function), and second by relying on IR heuristic constraints to prune the search space and filter out bad scoring functions. The obtained candidate scoring functions are tested on various standard IR collections and several simple but promising functions are identified. We perform extensive experiments to compare these functions with classical IR models. It is observed that these functions are yielding either better or comparable results. We also compare the performance of functions satisfying IR heuristic constraints and those which do not; the former set of functions clearly outperforms the latter, which shows the validity of IR heuristic constraints to design new IR models.
Keywords: IR theory; Function generation; Automatic discovery; IR constraints

Xiangming Mu, Kun Lu, Hohyon Ryu, Explicitly integrating MeSH thesaurus help into health information retrieval systems: An empirical user study, Information Processing & Management, Volume 50, Issue 1, January 2014, Pages 24-40, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2013.03.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030645731300068X)
Abstract: Abstract
When consumers search for health information, a major obstacle is their unfamiliarity with the medical terminology. Even though medical thesauri such as the Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) and related tools (e.g., the MeSH Browser) were created to help consumers find medical term definitions, the lack of direct and explicit integration of these help tools into a health retrieval system prevented them from effectively achieving their objectives. To explore this issue, we conducted an empirical study with two systems: One is a simple interface system supporting query-based searching; the other is an augmented system with two new components supporting MeSH term searching and MeSH tree browsing. A total of 45 subjects were recruited to participate in the study. The results indicated that the augmented system is more effective than the simple system in terms of improving user-perceived topic familiarity and question–answer performance, even though we did not find users spend more time on the augmented system. The two new MeSH help components played a critical role in participants’ health information retrieval and were found to allow them to develop new search strategies. The findings of the study enhanced our understanding of consumers’ search behaviors and shed light on the design of future health information retrieval systems.
Keywords: Health information retrieval; MeSH terms; MeSH Browser; Usability; User experience; Interface design

Panagiotis Theologou, Ioannis Pratikakis, Theoharis Theoharis, Part-based 3D object retrieval via multi-label optimization, Computer Vision and Image Understanding, Available online 22 April 2017, ISSN 1077-3142, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cviu.2017.04.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1077314217300681)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper deals with the problem of 3D object retrieval using a part-based representation. The premise in this context is that similar objects will consist of similar parts. A part-based representation is proposed, where each object is segmented, and represented as a labeled graph, with nodes corresponding to parts, and edges connecting adjacent parts. The calculation of the distance between two segmented objects is formulated as a multi-label optimization problem, taking into account the aforementioned graphs. The proposed method achieves comparable performance to the state-of-the-art on several datasets, while it has a clear advantage in the case of articulated objects.
Keywords: 3D object retrieval; 3D mesh segmentation; Part-based representation

Fida K. Dankar, Khaled El Emam, Stan Matwin, Efficient Private Information Retrieval for Geographical Aggregation, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 37, 2014, Pages 497-502, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2014.08.074.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050914010394)
Abstract: Abstract
Knowledge of patients’ location information (postal/zip codes) is critical in public health research. However, the inclusion of location information makes it easier to determine the identity of the individuals in the data sets. An efficient way to anonymize location information is through aggregation. In order to aggregate the locations efficiently, the data holder needs to know the locations’ adjacency information. A location adjacency matrix is big, and requires constant updates, thus it cannot be stored at the data holder's end. A possible solution would be to have the adjacency matrix stored on a cloud server, the data holder can then query the required adjacency records. However, queries reveal information on patients’ locations, thus, we need to privately query the cloud server's database. Existing private information retrieval protocols are inefficient for our context, therefore, in this paper, we present an efficient protocol to privately query the server's database for adjacency information and thus preserving patients’ privacy.
Keywords: private information retrieval; privacy; k-anonymity.

Jeffrey D. Karpicke, Retrieval-Based Learning: A Decade of Progress, In Reference Module in Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Psychology, Elsevier, 2017, ISBN 9780128093245, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-809324-5.21055-9.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128093245210559)
Abstract: Abstract
This chapter provides a comprehensive review of the past decade of research on retrieval-based learning. It describes common approaches used to study retrieval practice and outlines theoretical accounts of retrieval-based learning. This chapter reviews research that has manipulated initial retrieval practice activities in a wide variety of ways, extended the benefits of retrieval practice to final assessments that measure educationally meaningful learning outcomes, and generalized retrieval-based learning across learner populations, to different types of materials, and to authentic educational contexts.
Keywords: Learning; Learning strategies; Meaningful learning; Memory; Retrieval-based learning; Retrieval practice; Testing effect

Emanuele Di Buccio, Massimo Melucci, Federica Moro, Detecting verbose queries and improving information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 50, Issue 2, March 2014, Pages 342-360, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2013.09.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457313001003)
Abstract: Abstract
Although most of the queries submitted to search engines are composed of a few keywords and have a length that ranges from three to six words, more than 15% of the total volume of the queries are verbose, introduce ambiguity and cause topic drifts. We consider verbosity a different property of queries from length since a verbose query is not necessarily long, it might be succinct and a short query might be verbose. This paper proposes a methodology to automatically detect verbose queries and conditionally modify queries. The methodology proposed in this paper exploits state-of-the-art classification algorithms, combines concepts from a large linguistic database and uses a topic gisting algorithm we designed for verbose query modification purposes. Our experimental results have been obtained using the TREC Robust track collection, thirty topics classified by difficulty degree, four queries per topic classified by verbosity and length, and human assessment of query verbosity. Our results suggest that the methodology for query modification conditioned to query verbosity detection and topic gisting is significantly effective and that query modification should be refined when topic difficulty and query verbosity are considered since these two properties interact and query verbosity is not straightforwardly related to query length.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Verbose queries; Query modification; Query expansion

Eduardo Vicente-López, Luis M. de Campos, Juan M. Fernández-Luna, Juan F. Huete, Use of textual and conceptual profiles for personalized retrieval of political documents, Knowledge-Based Systems, Volume 112, 15 November 2016, Pages 127-141, ISSN 0950-7051, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2016.09.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705116303203)
Abstract: Abstract
The amount of information we are exposed to on a daily basis is increasing exponentially. Besides, Information Retrieval Systems (IRSs) return the same results for a given query regardless of who submitted it. In order to address the problems of finding useful, relevant information and adapting the results to the user, the use of personalization techniques is now more necessary than ever. They are not, however, particularly popular in live environments as users remain unconvinced about their reliability and, more importantly, are concerned about privacy issues. We have developed and compared six generic user profile representations in order to improve the personalization process and address the problem of privacy. We propose a new weighting scheme to build the profiles and a new personalization technique to join the advantages of some of the previous profiles. A comprehensive evaluation study of the proposed generic user profiles was performed and this revealed very good personalization performance results and some interesting conclusions about their use in a political context, more specifically with official documents from the Andalusian Parliament.
Keywords: User profile; Personalization; Information retrieval; Privacy-enhanced; E-Government

Wei Song, Jiu Zhen Liang, Xiao Long Cao, Soon Cheol Park, An effective query recommendation approach using semantic strategies for intelligent information retrieval, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 41, Issue 2, 1 February 2014, Pages 366-372, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2013.07.052.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417413005393)
Abstract: Abstract
With the explosive growth of web information, search engines have become the mainstream tools of information retrieval (IR). However, a notable problem emerged in the current IR systems is that the input queries are usually too short and too ambiguous to express their actual idea which largely affects the performance of IR systems. In this study, a novel query recommendation technology which suggests a list of related queries is proposed to resolve these problems. The query concepts can be firstly extracted from the web-snippets of the search result returned by the input query. A bipartite graph is subsequently built to identify the related queries, and the query similarity can be calculated by such bipartite graph. Moreover, by analyzing the URLs clicked by users, we find that some tokens appeared in URLs are very meaningful, especial for some typical topic-based pages. Therefore, these potential tokens which can provide a brief description from the subject of the URL are also considered. In order to reveal the real semantics between queries, the approach TF-IQF model is further discussed, and three features of a query, i.e. clicked documents, associated query and reversed query, are utilized in our approach in depth. Such a method could hopefully acquire the comprehensive idea of a query. To investigate how these three features could be used effectively for query recommendation in search engine, we adopt the benchmark evaluation criterions in our experiments, and the experimental results show its promising results in comparison with state of the art methods.
Keywords: Query recommendation; Genetic algorithm; Knowledge discovery; Clustering; Information retrieval

Suriati Akmal, Li-Hsing Shih, Rafael Batres, Ontology-based similarity for product information retrieval, Computers in Industry, Volume 65, Issue 1, January 2014, Pages 91-107, ISSN 0166-3615, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2013.07.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361513001590)
Abstract: Abstract
Product development of today is becoming increasingly knowledge intensive. Specifically, design teams face considerable challenges in making effective use of increasing amounts of information. In order to support product information retrieval and reuse, one approach is to use case-based reasoning (CBR) in which problems are solved “by using or adapting solutions to old problems.” In CBR, a case includes both a representation of the problem and a solution to that problem. Case-based reasoning uses similarity measures to identify cases which are more relevant to the problem to be solved. However, most non-numeric similarity measures are based on syntactic grounds, which often fail to produce good matches when confronted with the meaning associated to the words they compare. To overcome this limitation, ontologies can be used to produce similarity measures that are based on semantics. This paper presents an ontology-based approach that can determine the similarity between two classes using feature-based similarity measures that replace features with attributes. The proposed approach is evaluated against other existing similarities. Finally, the effectiveness of the proposed approach is illustrated with a case study on product–service–system design problems.
Keywords: Semantic similarity; Ontology; Product information retrieval; Formal concept analysis

Christophe Moulin, Christine Largeron, Christophe Ducottet, Mathias Géry, Cécile Barat, Fisher Linear Discriminant Analysis for text-image combination in multimedia information retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Volume 47, Issue 1, January 2014, Pages 260-269, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2013.06.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320313002550)
Abstract: Abstract
With multimedia information retrieval, combining different modalities – text, image, audio or video provides additional information and generally improves the overall system performance. For this purpose, the linear combination method is presented as simple, flexible and effective. However, it requires to choose the weight assigned to each modality. This issue is still an open problem and is addressed in this paper.

Our approach, based on Fisher Linear Discriminant Analysis, aims to learn these weights for multimedia documents composed of text and images. Text and images are both represented with the classical bag-of-words model. Our method was tested over the ImageCLEF datasets 2008 and 2009. Results demonstrate that our combination approach not only outperforms the use of the single textual modality but provides a nearly optimal learning of the weights with an efficient computation. Moreover, it is pointed out that the method allows to combine more than two modalities without increasing the complexity and thus the computing time.
Keywords: Multimedia information retrieval; Textual and visual information; Bag-of-words; Parameters learning; Fischer LDA

Dong Wang, Bin Wang, Sicheng Zhao, Hongxun Yao, Hong liu, View-based 3D object retrieval with discriminative views, Neurocomputing, Available online 12 April 2017, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.06.095.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217306628)
Abstract: Abstract
View-based 3D object retrieval techniques have become increasingly important in various fields, and lots of ingenious studies have promoted the development of retrieval performance from different aspects. In this paper, we focus on the 2D projective views that represent the 3D objects and propose a boosting approach by evaluating the discriminative ability of each object’s views. The dissimilarity between views’ semantic and discriminative ability is firstly investigated through classification performance. We then propose a simple, robust and effective measurement to study the view’s discriminative ability. By employing the proposed reverse distance metric, we utilize the discriminative information for many to many view set matching. The proposed algorithm is then employed with various features to boost the multi-model graph learning based retrieval method. We compare our approach with several state of the art methods on ETH-80 dataset and National Taiwan University 3D model dataset. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method and its excellent boosting performance.
Keywords: Discriminative view; Semantic view; Reverse sum-min distance; 3D object retrieval

Dale E. Brashers, Timothy P. Hogan, The appraisal and management of uncertainty: Implications for information-retrieval systems, Information Processing & Management, Volume 49, Issue 6, November 2013, Pages 1241-1249, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2013.06.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457313000708)
Abstract: Abstract
Uncertainty is an important idea in information-retrieval (IR) research, but the concept has yet to be fully elaborated and explored. Common assumptions about uncertainty are (a) that it is a negative (anxiety-producing) state and (b) that it will be reduced through information search and retrieval. Research in the domain of uncertainty in illness, however, has demonstrated that uncertainty is a complex phenomenon that shares a complicated relationship with information. Past research on people living with HIV and individuals who have tested positive for genetic risk for different illnesses has revealed that information and the reduction of uncertainty can, in fact, produce anxiety, and that maintaining uncertainty can be associated with optimism and hope. We review the theory of communication and uncertainty management and offer nine principles based on that theoretical work that can be used to influence IR system design. The principles reflect a view of uncertainty as a multi-faceted and dynamic experience, one subject to ongoing appraisal and management efforts that include interaction with and use of information in a variety of forms.
Keywords: Uncertainty; Information retrieval; Appraisal; Anxiety; Hope

Quynh Dao Thi Thuy, Quynh Nguyen Huu, Canh Phuong Van, Tao Ngo Quoc, An efficient semantic – Related image retrieval method, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 72, 15 April 2017, Pages 30-41, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2016.12.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417416306777)
Abstract: Abstract
Many previous techniques were designed to retrieve semantic images in a certain neighborhood of the query image and thus bypassing the semantically related images in the whole feature space. Several recently methods were designed to retrieve semantically related images in the entire feature space but with low precision. In this paper, we propose a Semantic – Related Image Retrieval method (SRIR), which can retrieve semantic images spread in the entire feature space with high precision. Our method takes advantage of the user feedback to determine the semantic importance of each query and the importance of each feature. In addition, the retrieval time of our method does not increase with the number of user feedback. We also provide experimental results to demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Semantic-related image; Semantic weight; Importance of feature

Partha Pratim Roy, Ayan Kumar Bhunia, Umapada Pal, Date-field retrieval in scene image and video frames using text enhancement and shape coding, Neurocomputing, Available online 11 April 2017, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.08.141.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217306689)
Abstract: Abstract
Text recognition in scene image and video frames is difficult because of low resolution, blur, background noise, etc. Since traditional OCRs do not perform well in such images, information retrieval using keywords could be an alternative way to index/retrieve such text information. Date is a useful piece of information which has various applications including date-wise videos/scene searching, indexing or retrieval. This paper presents a date spotting based information retrieval system for natural scene image and video frames where text appears with complex backgrounds. We propose a line based date spotting approach using hidden Markov model (HMM) which is used to detect the date information in a given text. Different date models are searched from a line without segmenting characters or words. Given a text line image in RGB, we apply an efficient gray image conversion to enhance the text information. Wavelet decomposition and gradient sub-bands are used to enhance text information in gray scale. Next, pyramid histogram of oriented gradient (PHOG) feature has been extracted from gray image and binary images for date-spotting framework. Binary and gray image features are combined by MLP based tandem approach. Finally, to boost the performance further, a shape coding based scheme is used to combine the similar shape characters in same class during word spotting. For our experiment, three different date models have been constructed to search similar date information having numeric dates that contains numeral values and punctuations and semi-numeric that contains dates with numerals along with months in scene/video text. We have tested our system on 1648 text lines and the results show the effectiveness of our proposed date spotting approach.
Keywords: Date-based indexing; Scene text and video text retrieval; Date extraction; Date spotting; Hidden Markov model

Nicole M. Long, Michael R. Sperling, Gregory A. Worrell, Kathryn A. Davis, Robert E. Gross, Bradley C. Lega, Barbara C. Jobst, Sameer A. Sheth, Kareem Zaghloul, Joel M. Stein, Michael J. Kahana, Contextually Mediated Spontaneous Retrieval Is Specific to the Hippocampus, Current Biology, Volume 27, Issue 7, 3 April 2017, Pages 1074-1079, ISSN 0960-9822, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cub.2017.02.054.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960982217302257)
Abstract: Summary
Although it is now well established that the hippocampus supports memory encoding [1, 2], little is known about hippocampal activity during spontaneous memory retrieval. Recent intracranial electroencephalographic (iEEG) work has shown that hippocampal activity during encoding predicts subsequent temporal organization of memories [3], supporting a role in contextual binding. It is an open question, however, whether the hippocampus similarly supports contextually mediated processes during retrieval. Here, we analyzed iEEG recordings obtained from 215 epilepsy patients as they performed a free recall task. To identify neural activity specifically associated with contextual retrieval, we compared correct recalls, intrusions (incorrect recall of either items from prior lists or items not previously studied), and deliberations (matched periods during recall when no items came to mind). Neural signals that differentiate correct recalls from both other retrieval classes reflect contextual retrieval, as correct recalls alone arise from the correct context. We found that in the hippocampus, high-frequency activity (HFA, 44–100 Hz), a proxy for neural activation [4], was greater prior to correct recalls relative to the other retrieval classes, with no differentiation between intrusions and deliberations. This pattern was not observed in other memory-related cortical regions, including DLPFC, thus supporting a specific hippocampal contribution to contextually mediated memory retrieval.
Keywords: iEEG; free recall; episodic memory; retrieval; context

Jeong-Hyeon Seo, JongSuk Ruth Lee, Young-Kwang Nam, Byoung-Dai Lee, iKRISTAL: An integrated information retrieval system using metadata on distributed environments, Mathematical and Computer Modelling, Volume 58, Issues 5–6, September 2013, Pages 1351-1361, ISSN 0895-7177, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mcm.2012.12.039.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0895717713000046)
Abstract: Recently, user demands for integrated searches over different information sources have been increasing rapidly. However, it is not easy to seamlessly integrate distributed heterogeneous information retrieval systems. In particular, resolving the discrepancies in the structures and semantics in the databases that are to be integrated is one of the most challenging research issues. In this paper, we propose an iKRISTAL system that integrates distributed, heterogeneous information retrieval systems without requiring source code-level modifications of the participating systems. The key element of our approach to address the structural and semantic discrepancies is to make use of schema mapping and a standardized framework for metadata registry. We have implemented and deployed a prototype implementation that integrates six different information sources, each of which is built upon heterogeneous schemas. Furthermore, we evaluated the performance of our approach under various configurations.
Keywords: Integrated information retrieval; Metadata registry; Schema mapping

Cristina Zamorano, Jordi Fernández, Daniel R. Storm, Xavier Carné, Carlos Sindreu, Memory retrieval re-activates Erk1/2 signaling in the same set of CA1 neurons recruited during conditioning, Neuroscience, Available online 31 March 2017, ISSN 0306-4522, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroscience.2017.03.034.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306452217302002)
Abstract: Abstract
The hippocampus enables a range of behaviors through its intrinsic circuits and concerted actions with other brain regions. One such important function is the retrieval of episodic memories. How hippocampal cells support retrieval of contextual fear memory remains largely unclear. Here we monitored phospho-activation of extracellular-regulated kinase (Erk1/2) across neuronal populations of the hippocampus to find that CA1 pyramidal neurons, but not cells in CA3 or dentate gyrus, specifically respond to retrieval of an aversive context. In contrast, retrieval of a neutral context that fails to elicit a threat response did not activate Erk1/2. Moreover, retrieval preferentially re-activated Erk1/2 in the same set of CA1 neurons previously activated during conditioning in a context-specific manner. By confining drug inhibition within dorsal CA1, we established the crucial role for Erk1/2 activity in retrieval of long-term memory, as well as in amygdala activation associated with fear expression. These data provide functional evidence that Erk1/2 signaling in CA1 encodes a specific neural representation of contextual memory with emotional value.
Key words: memory retrieval; contextual fear; Erk1/2 signaling; neuron; hippocampus

Tatiana Gossen, Andreas Nürnberger, Specifics of information retrieval for young users: A survey, Information Processing & Management, Volume 49, Issue 4, July 2013, Pages 739-756, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2012.12.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457313000022)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we present the state of the art in the field of information retrieval that is relevant for understanding how to design information retrieval systems for children. We describe basic theories of human development to explain the specifics of young users, i.e., their cognitive skills, fine motor skills, knowledge, memory and emotional states in so far as they differ from those of adults. We derive the implications these differences have on the design of information retrieval systems for children. Furthermore, we summarize the main findings about children’s search behavior from multiple user studies. These findings are important to understand children’s information needs, their search strategies and usage of information retrieval systems. We also identify several weaknesses of previous user studies about children’s information-seeking behavior. Guided by the findings of these user studies, we describe challenges for the design of information retrieval systems for young users. We give an overview of algorithms and user interface concepts. We also describe existing information retrieval systems for children, in specific web search engines and digital libraries. We conclude with a discussion of open issues and directions for further research. The survey provided in this paper is important both for designers of information retrieval systems for young users as well as for researchers who start working in this field.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Children

Hsuan-Ting Chang, Che-Hsian Lin, Chien-Yue Chen, Image multiplexing and authentication based on double phase retrieval in fresnel transform domain, Optics Communications, Volume 389, 15 April 2017, Pages 150-158, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2016.11.061.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401816310434)
Abstract: Abstract
An image multiplexing and authentication method based on the double-phase retrieval algorithm (DPRA) with the manipulations of wavelength and position in the Fresnel transform (FrT) domain is proposed in this study. The DPRA generates two matched phase-only functions (POFs) in the different planes so that the corresponding image can be reconstructed at the output plane. Given a number of target images, all the sets of matched POFs are used to generate the phase-locked system through the phase modulation and synthesis to achieve the multiplexing purpose. To reconstruct a target image, the corresponding phase key and all the correct parameters in the FrT are required. Therefore, the authentication system with high-level security can be achieved. The computer simulation verifies the validity of the proposed method and also shows good resistance to the crosstalk among the reconstructed images.
Keywords: Image multiplexing; Manipulations of wavelength and position; Double-phase retrieval algorithm; Phase-locked system; Authentication system; Computer simulation

Danielle R. King, Michael B. Miller, Influence of response bias and internal/external source on lateral posterior parietal successful retrieval activity, Cortex, Available online 15 April 2017, ISSN 0010-9452, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cortex.2017.04.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010945217301168)
Abstract: Abstract
In studies of recognition memory, regions of the lateral posterior parietal cortex exhibit greater activity (as indexed by the fMRI BOLD signal) during correct recognition of “old” (studied) items than correct rejection of “new” (unstudied) items. This effect appears to be source-sensitive, with greater activity associated with recognition of perceived than imagined events. Parietal successful retrieval activity also varies with response bias, or the tendency to be conservative about making “old” judgments. Here, we examined whether differences in response bias associated with recognition judgments of perceived and imagined events could account for source-based differences in LPPC activity. Participants perceived and imagined items in response to cue words and then at test, made recognition judgments in blocks that knowingly contained either a high or low proportion of old to new trials. While participants were indeed more conservative when making judgments about perceived than imagined events, the neuroimaging results demonstrated that response bias and source effects occurred in non-overlapping parietal regions. These findings suggest that source-based differences in LPPC activity cannot be explained by differences in response bias associated with recognizing perceived and imagined events.
Keywords: Source memory; Reality monitoring; Parietal; Successful retrieval; Response bias

Evgenia Vassilakaki, Emmanouel Garoufallou, Multilingual Digital Libraries: A review of issues in system-centered and user-centered studies, information retrieval and user behavior, The International Information & Library Review, Volume 45, Issues 1–2, September 2013, Pages 3-19, ISSN 1057-2317, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.iilr.2013.07.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1057231713000052)
Abstract: AbstractPurpose
This study aims to identify, collect and critical review the research literature on Multilingual Digital Libraries in English language from 1997 to 2012.
Design/methodology/approach
The present literature review has followed the rules of systematic review. In particular, the identified relevant papers were categorized based on their expressed aim on two core themes, that of system-centered and user-centered studies. The assigned papers were further analyzed and six sub-themes emerged for the system-centered studies and four for the user-centered studies. Additional categorization was also provided according to type of publication.
Findings
The literature concerning Multilingual Digital Libraries is vast and mainly focuses on two aspects the “System” and the “Users”. The majority of papers tried to meet the challenges raised for enabling multilingual information retrieval in Digital Libraries. Unfortunately, these efforts undertaken by a small number of researchers or research groups apparently working in isolation and therefore resulting in the development of numerous different tools and techniques. Relatively few studies have focused on the user and aimed to explore users' behavior and expectations when interacting with Multilingual Digital Libraries. As a result, further research is needed to reach to some tangible and usable findings.
Originality/value
This literature review captures the diversity of the research conducted regarding multilingual information access and retrieval in Digital Libraries. It organizes the vast literature in comprehensive themes and sub-themes enabling easy access to specific information.
Limitations
This study reviews only papers in English due to language restrictions from 1997 to 2012.
Keywords: Multilingual digital libraries; Multilingual information retrieval; Multilingual information access; System-centered studies; User-centered studies; System design; User behavior; Literature review

Fouad Dahak, Mohand Boughanem, Amar Balla, A probabilistic model to exploit user expectations in XML information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 53, Issue 1, January 2017, Pages 87-105, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2016.06.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457316302278)
Abstract: Abstract
The main objective of this paper is to exploit a new source of evidence derived from the document hierarchical structure for XML information retrieval. We consider that the structure of XML document is an important source of prior knowledge, and the structural features of an element may influence the user to consider that element as relevant. We build a probabilistic model to estimate the probability that the structural characteristics of an element attract user to explore the content of this element and consider it as relevant. This probability reflects the context importance. We propose a simple, well-motivated probabilistic model to estimate the context importance. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of the context importance through comprehensive experimental studies carried out on IEEE XML document collection. Experimental results show that the proposed approach outperforms models exploiting other sources of evidence.
Keywords: Priors; Element importance; User browsing map; Language model

Nathan Arnett, Matthew Wagers, Subject encodings and retrieval interference, Journal of Memory and Language, Volume 93, April 2017, Pages 22-54, ISSN 0749-596X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jml.2016.07.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0749596X1630064X)
Abstract: Abstract
Interference has been identified as a cause of processing difficulty in linguistic dependencies, such as the subject-verb relation (Van Dyke and Lewis, 2003). However, while mounting evidence implicates retrieval interference in sentence processing, the nature of the retrieval cues involved - and thus the source of difficulty - remains largely unexplored. Three experiments used self-paced reading and eyetracking to examine the ways in which the retrieval cues provided at a verb characterize subjects. Syntactic theory has identified a number of properties correlated with subjecthood, both phrase-structural and thematic. Findings replicate and extend previous findings of interference at a verb from additional subjects, but indicate that retrieval outcomes are relativized to the syntactic domain in which the retrieval occurs. One, the cues distinguish between thematic subjects in verbal and nominal domains. Two, within the verbal domain, retrieval is sensitive to abstract syntactic properties associated with subjects and their clauses. We argue that the processing at a verb requires cue-driven retrieval, and that the retrieval cues utilize abstract grammatical properties which may reflect parser expectations.
Keywords: Syntax; Retrieval; Interference; Subjecthood; Parsing; Eye-tracking

José M. Perea-Ortega, Elena Lloret, L. Alfonso Ureña-López, Manuel Palomar, Application of Text Summarization techniques to the Geographical Information Retrieval task, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 40, Issue 8, 15 June 2013, Pages 2966-2974, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2012.12.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417412012535)
Abstract: Automatic Text Summarization has been shown to be useful for Natural Language Processing tasks such as Question Answering or Text Classification and other related fields of computer science such as Information Retrieval. Since Geographical Information Retrieval can be considered as an extension of the Information Retrieval field, the generation of summaries could be integrated into these systems by acting as an intermediate stage, with the purpose of reducing the document length. In this manner, the access time for information searching will be improved, while at the same time relevant documents will be also retrieved. Therefore, in this paper we propose the generation of two types of summaries (generic and geographical) applying several compression rates in order to evaluate their effectiveness in the Geographical Information Retrieval task. The evaluation has been carried out using GeoCLEF as evaluation framework and following an Information Retrieval perspective without considering the geo-reranking phase commonly used in these systems. Although single-document summarization has not performed well in general, the slight improvements obtained for some types of the proposed summaries, particularly for those based on geographical information, made us believe that the integration of Text Summarization with Geographical Information Retrieval may be beneficial, and consequently, the experimental set-up developed in this research work serves as a basis for further investigations in this field.
Keywords: Geographical Information Retrieval; Text Summarization; Information Retrieval; GeoCLEF

Julia Rupprecht, Karl-Heinz T. Bäuml, Retrieval-induced versus context-induced forgetting: Can restudy preceded by context change simulate retrieval-induced forgetting?, Journal of Memory and Language, Volume 93, April 2017, Pages 259-275, ISSN 0749-596X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jml.2016.10.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0749596X16301681)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieval-induced forgetting (RIF) refers to the finding that retrieval practice on a subset of studied items can induce later forgetting of related unpracticed items. The context account of RIF, which attributes RIF to a mismatch of study context and reinstated context at test for the unpracticed items, claims that RIF effects can be simulated by restudy trials when these trials are preceded by context change. To test this proposal, we compared across three experiments effects of retrieval practice and of restudy trials preceded by context change, employing both recall and item recognition testing. We found retrieval practice to impair both recall and recognition of unpracticed items, which is consistent with prior work. In contrast, restudy preceded by context change impaired recall but not recognition of the items. These findings suggest that restudy preceded by context change cannot simulate RIF, which challenges the context account of RIF. The results are consistent with the view of a critical role of retrieval and inhibition in RIF.
Keywords: Episodic memory; Retrieval-induced forgetting; Context change; Inhibition

Katia Vila, Antonio Fernández, José M. Gómez, Antonio Ferrández, Josval Díaz, Noise-tolerance feasibility for restricted-domain Information Retrieval systems, Data & Knowledge Engineering, Volume 86, July 2013, Pages 276-294, ISSN 0169-023X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2013.02.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X13000219)
Abstract: Abstract
Information Retrieval systems normally have to work with rather heterogeneous sources, such as Web sites or documents from Optical Character Recognition tools. The correct conversion of these sources into flat text files is not a trivial task since noise may easily be introduced as a result of spelling or typeset errors. Interestingly, this is not a great drawback when the size of the corpus is sufficiently large, since redundancy helps to overcome noise problems. However, noise becomes a serious problem in restricted-domain Information Retrieval specially when the corpus is small and has little or no redundancy. This paper devises an approach which adds noise-tolerance to Information Retrieval systems. A set of experiments carried out in the agricultural domain proves the effectiveness of the approach presented.
Keywords: Information Retrieval; Noise-tolerance; Restricted domain; Edit distance

Peter E. Wais, Sahar Jahanikia, Daniel Steiner, Craig E.L. Stark, Adam Gazzaley, Retrieval of high-fidelity memory arises from distributed cortical networks, NeuroImage, Volume 149, 1 April 2017, Pages 178-189, ISSN 1053-8119, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.01.062.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811917300848)
Abstract: Abstract
Medial temporal lobe (MTL) function is well established as necessary for memory of facts and events. It is likely that lateral cortical regions critically guide cognitive control processes to tune in high-fidelity details that are most relevant for memory retrieval. Here, convergent results from functional and structural MRI show that retrieval of detailed episodic memory arises from lateral cortical—MTL networks, including regions of inferior frontal and angular gyrii. Results also suggest that recognition of items based on low-fidelity, generalized information, rather than memory arising from retrieval of relevant episodic details, is not associated with functional connectivity between MTL and lateral cortical regions. Additionally, individual differences in microstructural properties in white matter pathways, associated with distributed MTL-cortical networks, are positively correlated with better performance on a mnemonic discrimination task.
Keywords: Functional networks; Episodic retrieval; fMRI; Cognitive control; Mnemonic discrimination

Rama Murthy Garimella, Moncef Gabbouj, Iftikhar Ahmad, Image Retrieval: Information and Rough Set Theories, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 54, 2015, Pages 631-637, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.06.073.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915013976)
Abstract: Abstract
In this research paper, we propose novel features based on information theory for image retrieval. We propose the novel concept of “probabilistic filtering”. We propose a hybrid approach for image retrieval that combines annotation approach with content based image retrieval approach. Also rough set theory is proposed as a tool for audio/video object retrieval from multi-media databases.
Keywords: Hierarchical features; Normalized histogram; Roughset; K-L divergence; Image Retrieval.

Jae-wook Ahn, Peter Brusilovsky, Adaptive visualization for exploratory information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 49, Issue 5, September 2013, Pages 1139-1164, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2013.01.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457313000137)
Abstract: Abstract
As the volume and breadth of online information is rapidly increasing, ad hoc search systems become less and less efficient to answer information needs of modern users. To support the growing complexity of search tasks, researchers in the field of information developed and explored a range of approaches that extend the traditional ad hoc retrieval paradigm. Among these approaches, personalized search systems and exploratory search systems attracted many followers. Personalized search explored the power of artificial intelligence techniques to provide tailored search results according to different user interests, contexts, and tasks. In contrast, exploratory search capitalized on the power of human intelligence by providing users with more powerful interfaces to support the search process. As these approaches are not contradictory, we believe that they can re-enforce each other. We argue that the effectiveness of personalized search systems may be increased by allowing users to interact with the system and learn/investigate the problem in order to reach the final goal. We also suggest that an interactive visualization approach could offer a good ground to combine the strong sides of personalized and exploratory search approaches. This paper proposes a specific way to integrate interactive visualization and personalized search and introduces an adaptive visualization based search system Adaptive VIBE that implements it. We tested the effectiveness of Adaptive VIBE and investigated its strengths and weaknesses by conducting a full-scale user study. The results show that Adaptive VIBE can improve the precision and the productivity of the personalized search system while helping users to discover more diverse sets of information.
Keywords: Adaptive visualization; Exploratory information retrieval; Human–computer interaction; Personalization; Open user model; User study

Klaar Vanopstal, Joost Buysschaert, Godelieve Laureys, Robert Vander Stichele, Lost in PubMed. Factors influencing the success of medical information retrieval, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 40, Issue 10, August 2013, Pages 4106-4114, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2013.01.036.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417413000493)
Abstract: With the explosion of information available on the Web, finding specific medical information in an efficient way has become a considerable challenge. PubMed/MEDLINE offers an alternative to free-text searching on the web, allowing searchers to do a keyword-based search using Medical Subject Headings. However, finding relevant information within a limited time frame remains a difficult task. The current study is based on an error analysis of data from a retrieval experiment conducted at the nursing departments of two Belgian universities and a British university. We identified the main difficulties in query formulation and relevance judgment and compared the profiles of the best and worst performers in the test.

For the analysis, a query collection was built from the queries submitted by our test participants. The queries in this collection are all aimed at finding the same specific information in PubMed, which allowed us to identify what exactly went wrong in the query formulation step. Another crucial aspect for efficient information retrieval is relevance judgment. Differences between potential and actual recall of each query offered indications of the extent to which participants overlooked relevant citations.

The test participants were divided into “worst”, “average” and “best” performers based on the number of relevant citations they selected: zero, one or two and three or more, respectively. We tried to find out what the differences in background and in search behavior were between these three groups.
Keywords: Medical information retrieval; Medical Subject Headings; Bibliographic instruction; Nursing education; Information seeking behavior

Christoph Langenhan, Markus Weber, Marcus Liwicki, Frank Petzold, Andreas Dengel, Graph-based retrieval of building information models for supporting the early design stages, Advanced Engineering Informatics, Volume 27, Issue 4, October 2013, Pages 413-426, ISSN 1474-0346, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2013.04.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474034613000499)
Abstract: Abstract
Building information modeling (BIM) principles are transforming today’s communication and working processes in the field of construction, however the early design phases are only rarely supported and information technology is therefore not exploited to its full potential. The early design phases are characterized by an iterative process of searching for plausible solutions. A common approach is to refer to similar examples, which are conventionally found using keyword-based search strategies.

To this end we propose a method for indexing spatial configurations along with a sketch-based input method for search strategies that uses so-called semantic fingerprints of buildings. The topology of spatial configurations is extracted from building information models and represented as graphs. For both building information models and the user sketches, the extracted graphs are used as the basis for a subgraph-matching algorithm facilitating an intuitive novel query method for researching similar reference examples. The system is able to present corresponding existing solutions to even rudimentary sketches or fragments of a design idea. In addition to graph matching and sketch-based interaction, more recent BIM-based approaches are also taken into account.
Keywords: Building information modeling; Graph theory; Sketch-based interaction; Information retrieval

Chaorong Li, Yuanyuan Huang, Lihong Zhu, Color texture image retrieval based on Gaussian copula models of Gabor wavelets, Pattern Recognition, Volume 64, April 2017, Pages 118-129, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2016.10.030.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320316303478)
Abstract: Abstract
Color texture retrieval is a hot research area in image analysis. In this paper, we propose an efficient color texture retrieval method by using copula model based on Gabor wavelets. When Gabor wavelets are used to decompose color image, three types of dependence exist in the decomposed subbands of Gabor wavelets: color dependence, scale dependence and direction dependence. We analyze these dependencies and then capture them by using Gaussian copula function. Four copula schemes are developed, and accordingly four KLDs (Kullback-Leibler distances) of the copula schemes are introduced for color texture image retrieval. The evaluations of the proposed method are performed on several color texture databases including two large texture databases ALOT and STex. Experimental results demonstrate the proposed method has better performance than the state-of-the-art retrieval methods.
Keywords: Color Texture retrieval; Image representation; Copula model; Gabor wavelets

Lei Wang, Hanli Wang, Improving feature matching strategies for efficient image retrieval, Signal Processing: Image Communication, Volume 53, April 2017, Pages 86-94, ISSN 0923-5965, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.image.2017.02.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092359651730022X)
Abstract: Abstract
A number of state-of-the-art image retrieval systems have been built upon non-aggregated techniques such as Hamming Embedding (HE) and Selective Match Kernel (SMK). However, the retrieval performances of these techniques are directly affected by the quality of feature matching during the search process. In general, undesirable matched results appear mainly due to the following three aspects: (1) the locality of local features, (2) the quantization errors and (3) the phenomenon of burstiness. In this paper, starting from the framework of SMK, an in-depth study of the integration of Twin Feature (TF) and Similarity Maximal Matching (SMM) is fully investigated. To be specific, two effective modifications based on TF and SMM are proposed to further improve the quality of feature matching. On one hand, the original float vectors of TF are replaced with efficient binary signatures, which achieve relatively high efficiency and comparable accuracy of retrieval. On the other hand, Dynamic Normalization (DN) is designed to effectively control the impact of penalization generated by SMM and improve the performance with almost no extra cost. At last, an efficient image retrieval system is designed and realized based on a cloud-based heterogeneous computing framework through Apache Spark and multiple GPUs to deal with large-scale tasks. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed system can greatly refine the visual matching process and improve image retrieval results.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Feature matching; Twin Feature; Similarity maximal matching; Dynamic normalization

Durgesh Nandan Piyush, Jayesh Goyal, J. Srinivasan, Retrieval of cloud ice water path using SAPHIR on board Megha-Tropiques over the tropical ocean, Advances in Space Research, Volume 59, Issue 7, 1 April 2017, Pages 1895-1906, ISSN 0273-1177, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asr.2017.01.022.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0273117717300522)
Abstract: Abstract
The SAPHIR sensor onboard Megha-Tropiques (MT) measures the earth emitted radiation at frequencies near the water vapor absorption band. SAPHIR operates in six frequencies ranging from 183 ± 0.1 to 183 ± 11 GHz. These frequencies have been used to retrieve cloud ice water path (IWP) at a very high resolution. A method to retrieve IWP over the Indian ocean region is attempted in this study. The study is in two parts, in first part a radiative transfer based simulation is carried out to give an insight of using SAPHIR frequency channels for IWP retrieval, in the next part the real observations of SAPHIR and TRMM-TMI was used for IWP retrieval. The concurrent observations of SAPHIR brightness temperatures (Tbs) and TRMM TMI IWP were used in the development of the retrieval algorithm. An Eigen Vector analysis was done to identify weight of each channel in retrieving IWP; following this a two channel regression based algorithm was developed. The SAPHIR channels which are away from the water vapor absorption band were used to avoid possible water vapor contamination. When the retrieval is compared with independent test dataset, it gives a correlation of 0.80 and RMSE of 3.5%. SAPHIR derived IWP has been compared with other available global IWP products such as TMI, MSPPS, CloudSat and GPM-GMI qualitatively as well as quantitatively. PDF comparison of SAPHIR derived IWP found to have good agreement with CloudSat. Zonal mean comparison with recently launched GMI shows the strength of this algorithm.
Keywords: Megha Tropiques; SAPHIR; Ice water path; Water vapor absorption band; Retrieval

Karin Schoefegger, Tanel Tammet, Michael Granitzer, A survey on socio-semantic information retrieval, Computer Science Review, Volume 8, May 2013, Pages 25-46, ISSN 1574-0137, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cosrev.2013.03.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574013713000099)
Abstract: Abstract
The rise of the Social Web and advances in the Semantic Web provides unprecedented possibilities for the development of novel methods to enhance the information retrieval (IR) process by including varying degrees of semantics. We shed light on the corresponding notion of semantically-enhanced information retrieval by presenting state-of-the art techniques in related research areas. We describe techniques based on the main processes of a typical IR workflow and map them onto three main types of semantics, which vary from formal semantic knowledge representations and content-based semantics to social semantics emerging through usage and user interactions.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Personalized search; Emergent semantics; Formal semantics; Content semantics

Mao-Yuan Pai, Ming-Yen Chen, Hui-Chuan Chu, Yuh-Min Chen, Development of a semantic-based content mapping mechanism for information retrieval, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 40, Issue 7, 1 June 2013, Pages 2447-2461, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2012.10.056.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417412011803)
Abstract: Most information retrieval systems use keywords entered by the user as the search criteria to find documents. However, the language used in documents is often complicated and ambiguous, and thus the results obtained by using keywords are often inaccurate. To address this problem, this study developed a semantic-based content mapping mechanism for an information retrieval system. This approach employs the semantic features and ontological structure of the content as the basis for constructing a content map, thus simplifying the search process and improving the accuracy of the returned results.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Semantic feature; Semantic structure; Ontology; Content map

Jinhui Tang, Zechao Li, Xiang Zhu, Supervised deep hashing for scalable face image retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Available online 29 March 2017, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2017.03.028.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320317301383)
Abstract: Abstract
Hashing has been widely utilized for Approximate Nearest Neighbor (ANN) search due to its fast retrieval speed and low storage cost. In this work, we propose a novel supervised hashing method for scalable face image retrieval, i.e., Deep Hashing based on Classification and Quantization errors (DHCQ), by simultaneously learning feature representations of images, hash codes and classifiers. The supervised information and the deep architecture are collaboratively explored. Specifically, a deep convolutional network is introduced to learn discriminative feature representations, which are directly used to generate hash codes and predict labels of images. The quantization errors and the prediction errors jointly guide the learning of the deep network. They are highly interrelated and promoted each other. It is worth noting that the proposed method is a general hashing method and can be applied to the general image retrieval task. Extensive experiments on two face image datasets and one general image dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method compared with several state-of-the-art hashing methods.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Supervised hashing; Binary codes; Deep learning

Jinmei Pan, Michael T. Durand, Benjamin J. Vander Jagt, Desheng Liu, Application of a Markov Chain Monte Carlo algorithm for snow water equivalent retrieval from passive microwave measurements, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 192, April 2017, Pages 150-165, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2017.02.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425717300573)
Abstract: Abstract
Recent applications of passive microwave remote sensing techniques to estimate snow water equivalent (SWE) increasingly rely on the comprehension of microwave emission theories, instead of traditional empirical fitting approaches. In this study, an advanced SWE retrieval algorithm based on the Markov Chain Monte Carlo method was developed. This method samples the posterior multiple-layer snow properties according to the likelihood of the brightness temperature (TB) simulation with the actual TB observations. The Microwave Emission Model of Layered Snowpacks with improved Born approximation (MEMLS-IBA) was used as the observation model. Using a globally applicable method to produce prior estimates of snow properties, the retrieval approach is called the Bayesian Algorithm for SWE Estimation with Passive Microwave measurements (BASE-PM), and was applied on 48 snowpits at Sodankylä, Finland; Churchill, Canada and Colorado, US. The result shows that the root mean squared (RMS) error of the retrieved SWE is 42.7 mm excluding two outliers, and is 30.8 mm if the outliers as well as six deep snowpits from Colorado are excluded. This accuracy approximately meets the 30-mm requirement of Integrated Global Observing Strategy for shallow snow. The poor performance for the outlier and deep snowpits is explained. Additional experiments using more accurate priors show that SWE retrieval accuracy can be improved with local snowcover knowledge, e.g. if historical snowpit measurements or snow process model simulations are available.
Keywords: Passive microwave remote sensing; Snow water equivalent; Retrieval algorithm

Ashwani Kumar Tiwari, Vivek Kanhangad, Ram Bilas Pachori, Histogram refinement for texture descriptor based image retrieval, Signal Processing: Image Communication, Volume 53, April 2017, Pages 73-85, ISSN 0923-5965, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.image.2017.01.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923596517300164)
Abstract: Abstract
Texture descriptors such as local binary patterns (LBP) have been successfully employed for feature extraction in image retrieval algorithms because of their high discriminating ability and computational efficiency. In this paper, we propose histogram feature refinement methods for enhancing performance of texture descriptor based content-based image retrieval (CBIR) systems. In the proposed approach for histogram refinement, each pixel in the query and database images is classified into one of the two categories based on the analysis of pixel values in its neighborhood. Local patterns corresponding to two sets of pixels are used to generate two histogram features for each image, effectively resulting in splitting of the original global histogram of texture descriptors into two based on the category of each pixel. Resulting histograms are then concatenated to form a single histogram feature. This study also explores three hybrid frameworks for histogram refinement in CBIR systems. Comparison of histogram features corresponding to query and database images are performed using the relative l 1 distance metric. Performance evaluation on three publicly available benchmark image databases namely, GHIM 10000, COREL 1000 database, and Brodatz texture database shows that performances of existing texture descriptor based approaches improve considerably when the proposed histogram feature refinement is incorporated. Specifically, the average precision rate is improved by 6.02%, 5.69%, 4.79%, and 4.21% for LBP, local derivative pattern (LDP), local ternary pattern (LTP), and local tetra pattern (LTrP) descriptors, respectively on GHIM 10000 database. The proposed histogram refinement approaches also provide performance improvement for other texture descriptors considered in this study.
Keywords: Histogram refinement; Local binary patterns; Local derivative patterns; Local ternary patterns; Texture descriptors; Content-based image retrieval

Timm Rosburg, Mikael Johansson, Volker Sprondel, Axel Mecklinger, Retrieving self-vocalized information: An event-related potential (ERP) study on the effect of retrieval orientation, Brain and Cognition, Volume 92, December 2014, Pages 123-132, ISSN 0278-2626, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bandc.2014.10.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278262614001663)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieval orientation refers to a pre-retrieval process and conceptualizes the specific form of processing that is applied to a retrieval cue. In the current event-related potential (ERP) study, we sought to find evidence for an involvement of the auditory cortex when subjects attempt to retrieve vocalized information, and hypothesized that adopting retrieval orientation would be beneficial for retrieval accuracy. During study, participants saw object words that they subsequently vocalized or visually imagined. At test, participants had to identify object names of one study condition as targets and to reject object names of the second condition together with new items. Target category switched after half of the test trials. Behaviorally, participants responded less accurately and more slowly to targets of the vocalize condition than to targets of the imagine condition. ERPs to new items varied at a single left electrode (T7) between 500 and 800 ms, indicating a moderate retrieval orientation effect in the subject group as a whole. However, whereas the effect was strongly pronounced in participants with high retrieval accuracy, it was absent in participants with low retrieval accuracy. A current source density (CSD) mapping of the retrieval orientation effect indicated a source over left temporal regions. Independently from retrieval accuracy, the ERP retrieval orientation effect was surprisingly also modulated by test order. Findings are suggestive for an involvement of the auditory cortex in retrieval attempts of vocalized information and confirm that adopting retrieval orientation is potentially beneficial for retrieval accuracy. The effects of test order on retrieval-related processes might reflect a stronger focus on the newness of items in the more difficult test condition when participants started with this condition.
Keywords: Episodic memory; Reality monitoring; Event-related potential (ERP); Source memory; Strategic retrieval

André Mourão, Flávio Martins, João Magalhães, Multimodal medical information retrieval with unsupervised rank fusion, Computerized Medical Imaging and Graphics, Volume 39, January 2015, Pages 35-45, ISSN 0895-6111, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compmedimag.2014.05.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0895611114000664)
Abstract: Abstract
Modern medical information retrieval systems are paramount to manage the insurmountable quantities of clinical data. These systems empower health care experts in the diagnosis of patients and play an important role in the clinical decision process. However, the ever-growing heterogeneous information generated in medical environments poses several challenges for retrieval systems. We propose a medical information retrieval system with support for multimodal medical case-based retrieval. The system supports medical information discovery by providing multimodal search, through a novel data fusion algorithm, and term suggestions from a medical thesaurus. Our search system compared favorably to other systems in 2013 ImageCLEFMedical.
Keywords: Medical search; Search interfaces; Assisted query formulation; Multimodal retrieval; Data fusion

Sudheesh K. Rajput, Naveen K. Nishchal, Optical double image security using random phase fractional Fourier domain encoding and phase-retrieval algorithm, Optics Communications, Volume 388, 1 April 2017, Pages 38-46, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2016.11.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401816309671)
Abstract: Abstract
We propose a novel security scheme based on the double random phase fractional domain encoding (DRPE) and modified Gerchberg-Saxton (G-S) phase retrieval algorithm for securing two images simultaneously. Any one of the images to be encrypted is converted into a phase-only image using modified G-S algorithm and this function is used as a key for encrypting another image. The original images are retrieved employing the concept of known-plaintext attack and following the DRPE decryption steps with all correct keys. The proposed scheme is also used for encryption of two color images with the help of convolution theorem and phase-truncated fractional Fourier transform. With some modification, the scheme is extended for simultaneous encryption of gray-scale and color images. As a proof-of-concept, simulation results have been presented for securing two gray-scale images, two color images, and simultaneous gray-scale and color images.
Keywords: Image encryption; Double random phase encoding; Fractional Fourier transform; Phase retrieval algorithm; Phase truncation

Songhao Zhu, Dongliang Jin, Zhiwei Liang, Qiang Wang, Yajie Sun, Guozheng Xu, Integration of semantic and visual hashing for image retrieval, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 44, April 2017, Pages 229-235, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2016.08.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320316301729)
Abstract: Abstract
With the rapid proliferation of large-scale web images, recent years have witnessed more and more images labeled with user-provided tags, which leads to considerable effort made on hashing based image retrieval in huge databases. Current research efforts focus mostly on learning semantic hashing functions which design compact binary codes to map semantically similar images into similar codes; however the visual similarity is not well explored for constructing semantic hashing functions. Here a novel approach is proposed to learn hashing functions that preserve semantic and visual similarity between images. Specifically, semantic hashing codes are first learned by leveraging the similarity between textual structure and visual structure; then, the maximum entropy principle is exploited to achieve compact binary codes; finally, the function decay principle is introduced to remove noisy visual attributes. Experimental results conducted on a widely-used image dataset demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed method over the examined state-of-the-art techniques.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Semantic similarity; Visual structure; Hashing code

Licia Sbattella, Roberto Tedesco, A novel semantic information retrieval system based on a three-level domain model, Journal of Systems and Software, Volume 86, Issue 5, May 2013, Pages 1426-1452, ISSN 0164-1212, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2013.01.029.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121213000137)
Abstract: This paper presents a methodology and a prototype for extracting and indexing knowledge from natural language documents. The underlying domain model relies on a conceptual level (described by means of a domain ontology), which represents the domain knowledge, and a lexical level (based on WordNet), which represents the domain vocabulary. A stochastic model (the ME-2L-HMM2, which mixes – in a novel way – HMM and maximum entropy models) stores the mapping between such levels, taking into account the linguistic context of words. Not only does such a context contain the surrounding words; it also contains morphologic and syntactic information extracted using natural language processing tools. The stochastic model is then used, during the document indexing phase, to disambiguate word meanings. The semantic information retrieval engine we developed supports simple keyword-based queries, as well as natural language-based queries. The engine is also able to extend the domain knowledge, discovering new and relevant concepts to add to the domain model. The validation tests indicate that the system is able to disambiguate and extract concepts with good accuracy. A comparison between our prototype and a classic search engine shows that the proposed approach is effective in providing better accuracy.
Keywords: HMM; MaxEnt; Ontology; WordNet; Semantic information retrieval; Word sense disambiguation

Mohammed Nazim Uddin, Trong Hai Duong, Ngoc Thanh Nguyen, Xin-Min Qi, Geun Sik Jo, Semantic similarity measures for enhancing information retrieval in folksonomies, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 40, Issue 5, April 2013, Pages 1645-1653, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2012.09.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417412010603)
Abstract: Collaborative tagging systems, also known as folksonomies, enable a user to annotate various web resources with a free set of tags for sharing and searching purposes. Tags in a folksonomy reflect users’ collaborative cognition about information. Tags play an important role in a folksonomy as a means of indexing information to facilitate search and navigation of resources. However, the semantics of the tags, and therefore the semantics of the resources, are neither known nor explicitly stated. It is therefore difficult for users to find related resources due to the absence of a consistent semantic meaning among tags. The shortage of relevant tags increases data sparseness and decreases the rate of information extraction with respect to user queries. Defining semantic relationships between tags, resources, and users is an important research issue for the retrieval of related information from folksonomies. In this research, a method for finding semantic relationships among tags is proposed. The present study considers not only the pairwise relationships between tags, resources, and users, but also the relationships among all three. Experimental results using real datasets from Flickr and Del.icio.us show that the method proposed here is more effective than previous methods such as LCH, JCN, and LIN in finding semantic relationships among tags in a folksonomy.
Keywords: Folksonomies; Tag; WordNet; Information retrieval; Collaborative tagging

Juan C. Rodriguez, Germán A. González, Cristóbal Fresno, Andrea S. Llera, Elmer A. Fernández, Improving information retrieval in functional analysis, Computers in Biology and Medicine, Volume 79, 1 December 2016, Pages 10-20, ISSN 0010-4825, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compbiomed.2016.09.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S001048251630244X)
Abstract: Abstract
Transcriptome analysis is essential to understand the mechanisms regulating key biological processes and functions. The first step usually consists of identifying candidate genes; to find out which pathways are affected by those genes, however, functional analysis (FA) is mandatory. The most frequently used strategies for this purpose are Gene Set and Singular Enrichment Analysis (GSEA and SEA) over Gene Ontology. Several statistical methods have been developed and compared in terms of computational efficiency and/or statistical appropriateness. However, whether their results are similar or complementary, the sensitivity to parameter settings, or possible bias in the analyzed terms has not been addressed so far. Here, two GSEA and four SEA methods and their parameter combinations were evaluated in six datasets by comparing two breast cancer subtypes with well-known differences in genetic background and patient outcomes. We show that GSEA and SEA lead to different results depending on the chosen statistic, model and/or parameters. Both approaches provide complementary results from a biological perspective. Hence, an Integrative Functional Analysis (IFA) tool is proposed to improve information retrieval in FA. It provides a common gene expression analytic framework that grants a comprehensive and coherent analysis. Only a minimal user parameter setting is required, since the best SEA/GSEA alternatives are integrated. IFA utility was demonstrated by evaluating four prostate cancer and the TCGA breast cancer microarray datasets, which showed its biological generalization capabilities.
Keywords: Big omics data; Gene set enrichment analysis; Functional class scoring; Over representation analysis; Singular enrichment analysis; Biological insight; Knowledge discovery; Breast cancer; R framework

Noorriati Din, Saadiah Yahya, Shireen Haron, Information Retrieval and Academic Performance among Facebook Users, Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, Volume 68, 19 December 2012, Pages 258-268, ISSN 1877-0428, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2012.12.225.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042812057084)
Abstract: Online social networking refers to social network sites such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Meetup, Tribe and MySpace. Since the inception, the number of online social networking is being created rapidly with many sophisticated features being developed ever since. The Facebook has gained much popularity among the public mainly for interactions as well as for exchanging information. This study intends to investigate the information retrieval that occurs in the Facebook platform and if the process of retrieving information on the Facebook support academic performance. Fifty nine adult learners participated in this research.
Keywords: Information retrieval; academic performance; self-directed learning; Facebook

Farag Saad, Andreas Nürnberger, Overview of prior-art cross-lingual information retrieval approaches, World Patent Information, Volume 34, Issue 4, December 2012, Pages 304-314, ISSN 0172-2190, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wpi.2012.08.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0172219012001469)
Abstract: Prior-art search in patent data has specific properties, which set it apart from other traditional information retrieval processes. One major issue is that patents are usually described in generic terms in order to avoid narrowing down the scope of the inventions. Given the growing amount of patents in different countries using different languages, prior-art search applications nowadays need to find patent claims across languages. This has prompted the current research efforts into how to tackle cross-lingual patent search issues. In this paper, we review the state-of-the art of approaches for cross-lingual prior-art search. This includes cross-lingual information retrieval approaches in general and issues that prevent them from working well for prior-art search. Furthermore, we give a brief overview of existing cross-lingual prior-art search approaches and discuss whether they are able to overcome the problems that traditional cross-lingual retrieval approaches have in this area. Finally, a critical analysis based on this overview is presented and ideas on how to tackle some open research issues in cross-lingual prior-art search are given.
Keywords: Cross-lingual information retrieval; Patent information retrieval; Prior-art search; International patent classification system; IPC

Lei Ma, Hongliang Li, Fanman Meng, Qingbo Wu, Linfeng Xu, Manifold-ranking embedded order preserving hashing for image semantic retrieval, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 44, April 2017, Pages 29-39, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2017.01.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320317300123)
Abstract: Abstract
Due to the storage and computational efficiency of hashing technology, it has proven a valuable tool for large scale similarity search. In many cases, the large scale data in real-world lie near some (unknown) low-dimensional and non-linear manifold. Moreover, Manifold Ranking approach can preserve the global topological structure of the data set more effectively than Euclidean Distance-based Ranking approach, which fails to preserve the semantic relevance degree. However, most existing hashing methods ignore the global topological structure of the data set. The key issue is how to incorporate the global topological structure of data set into learning effective hashing function. In this paper, we propose a novel unsupervised hashing approach, namely Manifold-Ranking Embedded Order Preserving Hashing (MREOPH). A manifold ranking loss is introduced to solve the issue of global topological structure preserving. An order preserving loss is introduced to ensure the consistency between manifold ranking and hamming ranking. A hypercubic quantization loss is introduced to learn discrete binary codes. The information theoretic regularization term is taken into consideration for preserving desirable properties of hash codes. Finally, we integrate them in a joint optimization framework for minimizing the information loss in each processing. Experimental results on three datasets for semantic search clearly demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Keywords: Manifold ranking; Hashing; Image semantic retrieval

Shengli Wu, The weighted Condorcet fusion in information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 49, Issue 1, January 2013, Pages 108-122, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2012.02.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457312000271)
Abstract: The Condorcet fusion is a distinctive fusion method and was found useful in information retrieval. Two basic requirements for the Condorcet fusion to improve retrieval effectiveness are: (1) all component systems involved should be more or less equally effective; and (2) each information retrieval system should be developed independently and thus each component result is more or less equally different from the others. These two requirements may not be satisfied in many cases, then weighted Condorcet becomes a good option. However, how to assign weights for the weighted Condorcet has not been investigated.

In this paper, we present a linear discriminant analysis (LDA) based approach to training weights. Some properties of Condorcet fusion and weighted Condorcet fusion are discussed. Experiments are conducted with three groups of runs submitted to TREC to evaluate the performance of a group of data fusion methods. The empirical investigation finds that Condorcet fusion is a good ranking-based method in good conditions, while weighted Condorcet fusion can make significant improvement over Condorcet fusion when the conditions are not favourable for Condorcet fusion. The experiments also show that the proposed LDA weighting schema is effective and Condorcet fusion with LDA based weighting schema is more effective than all other data fusion methods involved.
Keywords: Data fusion; Information retrieval; Condorcet; Weighted Condorcet; Weight assignment; Linear discriminant analysis

Tarek Helmy, Ahmed Al-Nazer, Saeed Al-Bukhitan, Ali Iqbal, Health, Food and User's Profile Ontologies for Personalized Information Retrieval, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 52, 2015, Pages 1071-1076, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.05.114.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S187705091500914X)
Abstract: Abstract
As we aim to retrieve personalized information to user's queries related to food, health and nutrition domains such as “Is apple good for people with heart diseases?”, “How much honey can be taken by a diabetic patient?”, “What are the health benefits of eating pineapple?” and “What are the fruits that contain the daily need quantity of calcium?” The information retrieval system needs to integrate ontologies from different domains such as food, nutrition, health (diseases, body parts, body functions) and recipe in order to answer such kind of queries. In addition, to support multilingual queries, the system and ontologies require aggregation of information from multi-level ontologies. Also, to achieve high relevancy and coverage we need to use ontologies that have comprehensive and rich vocabularies. Moreover, to make effective use for the annotation, ontologies concept names should be unique and self-contained. The main focus of this paper is to integrate ontologies from food, health and nutrition domains to help the personalized information systems to retrieve food and heath recommendations based on the user's health conditions and food preferences. Such ontologies that satisfy these requirements do not explicitly exist. Therefore, we were challenged to develop these ontologies by creating, integrating and reusing some of the existing ontologies to meet our requirements.
Keywords: Ontology Integration; Semanic Web; Personalized Retrieval.

Tengfei Wang, Xuezhu Ren, Karl Schweizer, Learning and retrieval processes predict fluid intelligence over and above working memory, Intelligence, Volume 61, March–April 2017, Pages 29-36, ISSN 0160-2896, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intell.2016.12.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016028961630232X)
Abstract: Abstract
Previous studies have shown that the ability to learn and the ability to retrieve relevant information from long-term memory are closely related to fluid intelligence. However, it remains unclear whether the effect of learning and retrieval processes on intelligence is unique or merely due to the variance shared with working memory. The current study attempted to achieve a relatively purified representation of learning and retrieval processes and to examine whether they predict fluid intelligence beyond working memory. A sample of 220 university students completed a rule-based learning task, the Posner task, two working memory tasks and two fluid intelligence scales. Fixed-links models were used to separate the core processes representing learning and retrieval from the auxiliary processes and to link them with fluid intelligence. Results showed that the learning and retrieval processes contributed significantly to fluid intelligence (r = 0.38 and − 0.35 respectively). More importantly, both learning and retrieval processes were still predictive of fluid intelligence when working memory was controlled for. These results suggest that the ability to learn abstract rules and the efficiency of retrieving information from long-term memory are two essential components underlying fluid intelligence in addition to working memory.
Keywords: Learning; Long-term memory retrieval; Working memory; Fluid intelligence

Kehua Guo, Zhonghe Liang, Yayuan Tang, Tao Chi, SOR: An optimized semantic ontology retrieval algorithm for heterogeneous multimedia big data, Journal of Computational Science, Available online 21 February 2017, ISSN 1877-7503, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jocs.2017.02.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S187775031730176X)
Abstract: Abstract
Semantic information can express the search intentions of users, and this approach has become an important tool in the field of information retrieval. To support semantic-based multimedia retrieval in big data environment, this paper presents an optimized algorithm called semantic ontology retrieval (SOR), which uses big data processing tools to store and retrieve ontologies from heterogeneous multimedia data. First, the background of semantic extraction and ontology representation for multimedia big data are addressed. Second, the methodology of SOR, including the model definition and retrieval algorithm, is proposed. Third, for parallel processing SOR in distributed nodes, a MapReduce-based retrieval framework is presented. Finally, to achieve high retrieval precision and good user experience, a user feedback scheme is designed. The experimental results illustrate that SOR is suitable for semantic-based retrieval for heterogeneous multimedia big data.
Keywords: Ontology; Semantic-based retrieval; MapReduce; Multimedia big data; Big data retrieval; Retrieval algorithm

Shuangcheng Zhang, Xiaolei Wang, Qin Zhang, Avoiding errors attributable to topography in GPS-IR snow depth retrievals, Advances in Space Research, Volume 59, Issue 6, 15 March 2017, Pages 1663-1669, ISSN 0273-1177, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asr.2016.12.031.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0273117716307530)
Abstract: Abstract
Global Positioning System (GPS) interferometric reflectometry represents a potential source of new snow data for climate scientists and water managers with spatial and temporal sensitivity. Generally, the snow layer fluctuation is considered to be correlated with the ground surface fluctuation. The reflector heights in terms of the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) are quite close to the vertical distance between the antenna and the ground or snow level at the corresponding Fresnel zone. The reflector heights at different zones were represented by a grid model in this work, which can reflect and overcome some of the problems caused by the topography. The proposed method for snow depth retrievals looks for good quality reflector height values of the horizontal reflecting zone in the grid model, and with this method improvements in snow depth retrieval accuracy were achieved (RMSE: 7.40 cm, Corr.: 0.99) compared to the PBO H2O group calculation results (RMSE: 16.58 cm, Corr.: 0.99).
Keywords: GPS-IR; Snow depth retrievals; Surface fluctuation

Emdad Khan, Adel AlSalem, Ivia: Interactive Video Intelligent Agent Framework for Instructional Video Information Retrieval, Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, Volume 64, 9 November 2012, Pages 186-191, ISSN 1877-0428, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2012.11.022.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042812049993)
Abstract: Current use of e-learning management systems(ELMS) in educational institutions is on the rise. These systems are rapidly increasing in regards to volume. Instructional video is one type of content that is inherently large in volume and sequential in nature in accessing the videos which makes it difficult to manage and retrieve information. There has been extensive research on video information retrieval in the past decade. Existing systems need pre-processing by human intervention, are cost prohibitive, or do not exhibit the natural interaction. In this paper, we propose a framework for information retrieval of instructional video content in an ELMS that utilizes Natural Language Understanding/PROCESSING and an Intelligent Agent in a seamless integrated environment to address the key issues of the existing solutions.
Keywords: Human Computer Interaction; E-Learning; Information Retrieval; Multimedia; Natural Language Understanding (NLU)

Pablo Nicolás Fernández Larrosa, Alejandro Ojea, Ignacio Ojea, Victor Alejandro Molina, María Aurelia Zorrilla-Zubilete, Alejandro Delorenzi, Retrieval under stress decreases the long-term expression of a human declarative memory via reconsolidation, Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, Available online 8 March 2017, ISSN 1074-7427, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nlm.2017.03.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1074742717300370)
Abstract: Abstract
Acute stress impairs memory retrieval of several types of memories. An increase in glucocorticoids, several minutes after stressful events, is described as essential to the impairing retrieval-effects of stressors. Moreover, memory retrieval under stress can have long-term consequences. Through what process does the reactivated memory under stress, despite the disrupting retrieval effects, modify long-term memories? The reconsolidation hypothesis proposes that a previously consolidated memory reactivated by a reminder enters a vulnerability phase (labilization) during which it is transiently sensitive to modulation, followed by a re-stabilization phase. However, previous studies show that the expression of memories during reminder sessions is not a condition to trigger the reconsolidation process since unexpressed memories can be reactivated and labilized. Here we evaluate whether it is possible to reactivate-labilize a memory under the impairing-effects of a mild stressor. We used a paradigm of human declarative memory whose reminder structure allows us to differentiate between a reactivated-labile memory state and a reactivated but non-labile state. Subjects memorized a list of five cue-syllables associated with their respective response-syllables. Seventy-two hours later, results showed that the retrieval of the paired-associate memory was impaired when tested 20 min after a mild stressor (cold pressor stress (CPS)) administration, coincident with cortisol levels increase. Then, we investigated the long-term effects of CPS administration prior to the reminder session. Under conditions where the reminder initiates the reconsolidation process, CPS impaired the long-term memory expression tested 24 h later. In contrast, CPS did not show effects when administered before a reminder session that does not trigger reconsolidation. Results showed that memory reactivation-labilization occurs even when retrieval was impaired. Memory reactivation under stress could hinder -via reconsolidation- the probability of the traces to be expressed in the long term.
Keywords: Memory; Retrieval; Memory expression; Reconsolidation; Reactivation

Jingkuan Song, Lianli Gao, Li Liu, Xiaofeng Zhu, Nicu Sebe, Quantization-based hashing: a general framework for scalable image and video retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Available online 30 March 2017, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2017.03.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320317301322)
Abstract: Abstract
Nowadays, due to the exponential growth of user generated images and videos, there is an increasing interest in learning-based hashing methods. In computer vision, the hash functions are learned in such a way that the hash codes can preserve essential properties of the original space (or label information). Then the Hamming distance of the hash codes can approximate the data similarity. On the other hand, vector quantization methods quantize the data into different clusters based on the criteria of minimal quantization error, and then perform the search using look-up tables. While hashing methods using Hamming distance can achieve faster search speed, their accuracy is often outperformed by quantization methods with the same code length, due to the low quantization error and more flexible distance lookups. To improve the effectiveness of the hashing methods, in this work, we propose Quantization-based Hashing (QBH), a general framework which incorporates the advantages of quantization error reduction methods into conventional property preserving hashing methods. The learned hash codes simultaneously preserve the properties in the original space and reduce the quantization error, and thus can achieve better performance. Furthermore, the hash functions and a quantizer can be jointly learned and iteratively updated in a unified framework, which can be readily used to generate hash codes or quantize new data points. Importantly, QBH is a generic framework that can be integrated to different property preserving hashing methods and quantization strategies, and we apply QBH to both unsupervised and supervised hashing models as showcases in this paper. Experimental results on three large-scale unlabeled datasets (i.e., SIFT1M, GIST1M, and SIFT1B), three labeled datastes (i.e., ESPGAME, IAPRTC and MIRFLICKR) and one video dataset (UQ_VIDEO) demonstrate the superior performance of our QBH over existing unsupervised and supervised hashing methods.
Keywords: Hashing; Pseudo labels; Multimedia retrieval

Mutasem K. Alsmadi, An efficient similarity measure for content based image retrieval using memetic algorithm, Egyptian Journal of Basic and Applied Sciences, Available online 17 March 2017, ISSN 2314-808X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejbas.2017.02.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2314808X16300628)
Abstract: Abstract
Content based image retrieval (CBIR) systems work by retrieving images which are related to the query image (QI) from huge databases. The available CBIR systems extract limited feature sets which confine the retrieval efficacy. In this work, extensive robust and important features were extracted from the images database and then stored in the feature repository. This feature set is composed of color signature with the shape and color texture features. Where, features are extracted from the given QI in the similar fashion. Consequently, a novel similarity evaluation using a meta-heuristic algorithm called a memetic algorithm (genetic algorithm with great deluge) is achieved between the features of the QI and the features of the database images. Our proposed CBIR system is assessed by inquiring number of images (from the test dataset) and the efficiency of the system is evaluated by calculating precision-recall value for the results. The results were superior to other state-of-the-art CBIR systems in regard to precision.
Keywords: Color signature; Color texture; Content based image retrieval (CBIR); Neutrosophic; Memetic algorithm; Shape feature; Similarity measure

Yan Xu, Fumin Shen, Xing Xu, Lianli Gao, Yuan Wang, Xiao Tan, Large-scale image retrieval with supervised sparse hashing, Neurocomputing, Volume 229, 15 March 2017, Pages 45-53, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.05.109.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216313741)
Abstract: Abstract
In recent years, learning based hashing becomes an attractive technique in large-scale image retrieval due to its low storage and computation cost. Hashing methods map each high-dimensional vector onto a low-dimensional hamming space by projection operators. However, when processing high dimensional data retrieval, many existing methods including hashing cost a majority of time on projection operators. In this paper, we solve this problem by implementing a sparsity regularizer. On one hand, due to the sparse property of the projection matrix, our method effectively lower both the storage and computation cost. On the other hand, we reduce the effective number of parameters involved in the learned projection matrix according to sparsity regularizer, which helps avoid overfitting problem. Without relaxing binary constraints, an iterative scheme jointly optimizing the objective function directly was given, which helps to obtain effective and efficient binary codes. We evaluate our method on three databases and compare it with some state-of-the-art hashing methods. Experimental results demonstrate that our method outperforms the comparison approaches.
Keywords: Learning based hashing; Medical; Sparsity; Image retrieval

Fahd Kalloubi, El Habib Nfaoui, Omar El beqqali, Microblog semantic context retrieval system based on linked open data and graph-based theory, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 53, 1 July 2016, Pages 138-148, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2016.01.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417416000300)
Abstract: Abstract
Microblogging platforms have emerged as large collections of short documents. In fact, the provision of an effective way to retrieve short text presents a significant research challenge owing to several factors: creative language usage, high contextualization, the informal nature of micro blog posts and the limited length of this form of communication. Thus, micro blogging retrieval systems suffer from the problems of data sparseness and the semantic gap. This makes it inadequate to accurately meet users’ information needs because users compose tweets using few terms and without query terms inside; thus, many relevant tweets will not be retrieved. To overcome the problems of data sparseness and the semantic gap, recent studies on content-based microblog searching have focused on adding semantics to micro posts by linking short text to knowledge bases resources. Moreover, previous studies use bag-of-concepts representation by linking named entities to their corresponding knowledge base concepts. However, bag-of-concepts representation considers only concepts that match named entities and supposes that all concepts are equivalent and independent. Thus, in this paper, we present a graph-of-concepts method that considers the relationships among concepts that match named entities in short text and their related concepts and contextualizes each concept in the graph by leveraging the linked nature of DBpedia as a Linked Open Data knowledge base and graph-based centrality theory. Furthermore, we propose a similarity measure that computes the similarity between two graphs (query-tweet) by considering the relationships between the contextualized concepts. Finally, we introduce some experiment results, using a real Twitter dataset, to expose the effectiveness of our system.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Semantic similarity; Linked open data; DBpedia; Named entity linking; Graph centrality

Yue Gao, Meng Wang, Rongrong Ji, Zhengjun Zha, Jialie Shen, k-Partite graph reinforcement and its application in multimedia information retrieval, Information Sciences, Volume 194, 1 July 2012, Pages 224-239, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2012.01.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025512000217)
Abstract: In many example-based information retrieval tasks, example query actually contains multiple sub-queries. For example, in 3D object retrieval, the query is an object described by multiple views. In content-based video retrieval, the query is a video clip that contains multiple frames. Without prior knowledge, the most intuitive approach is to treat the sub-queries equally without difference. In this paper, we propose a k-partite graph reinforcement approach to fuse these sub-queries based on the to-be-retrieved database. The approach first collects the top retrieved results. These results are regarded as pseudo-relevant samples and then a k-partite graph reinforcement is performed on these samples and the query. In the reinforcement process, the weights of the sub-queries are updated by an iterative process. We present experiments on 3D object retrieval and content-based video clip retrieval, and the results demonstrate that our method effectively boosts retrieval performance.
Keywords: Multimedia information retrieval; k-Partite graph reinforcement; 3D object retrieval; Video retrieval

Mehdi Adda, A Formal Model of Information Retrieval Based on User Sensitivities, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 19, 2013, Pages 428-436, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2013.06.058.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050913006662)
Abstract: Abstract
Search engines are a very important web applications used by millions of users around the world on a daily basis to search the Web. Finding relevant information in this growing space is challenging, and is complicated by the diversity and needs of the community of Web users. Indeed, the Web is one, but the needs of users are multiple and different. Thus, information relevancy is not only related to the formulated query, but also to the user who is formulating this query. For example, user sensitivities may enhance information relevancy. In this paper, we are proposing to derive a formal model of user sensitivities integration into search engines.
Keywords: Web; Search Engines; Information Retrieval; User sensitivities

Marie Parrens, Jean-Pierre Wigneron, Philippe Richaume, Ahmad Al Bitar, Arnaud Mialon, Roberto Fernandez-Moran, Amen Al-Yaari, Peggy O’Neill, Yann Kerr, Considering combined or separated roughness and vegetation effects in soil moisture retrievals, International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation, Volume 55, March 2017, Pages 73-86, ISSN 0303-2434, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jag.2016.11.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0303243416301866)
Abstract: Abstract
For more than six years, the Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS) mission has provided multi angular and full-polarization brightness temperature (TB) measurements at L-band. Geophysical products such as soil moisture (SM) and vegetation optical depth at nadir (τnad) are retrieved by an operational algorithm using TB observations at different angles of incidence and polarizations. However, the quality of the retrievals depends on several surface effects, such as vegetation, soil roughness and texture, etc. In the microwave forward emission model used in the retrievals (L-band Microwave Emission Model, L-MEB), soil roughness is modelled with a semi-empirical equation using four main parameters (Qr, Hr, Nrp, with p = H or V polarizations). At present, these parameters are calibrated with data provided by airborne studies and in situ measurements made at a local scale that is not necessarily representative of the large SMOS footprints (43 km on average) at global scale. In this study, we evaluate the impact of the calibrated values of Nrp and Hr on the SM and τnad retrievals based on SMOS TB measurements (SMOS Level 3 product) over the Soil Climate Analysis Network (SCAN) network located in North America over five years (2011–2015). In this study, Qr was set equal to zero and we assumed that NrH = NrV. The retrievals were performed by varying Nrp from −1 to 2 by steps of 1 and Hr from 0 to 0.6 by steps of 0.1. At satellite scale, the results show that combining vegetation and roughness effects in a single parameter provides the best results in terms of soil moisture retrievals, as evaluated against the in situ SM data. Even though our retrieval approach was very simplified, as we did not account for pixel heterogeneity, the accuracy we obtained in the SM retrievals was almost systematically better than those of the Level 3 product. Improved results were also obtained in terms of optical depth retrievals. These new results may have key consequences in terms of calibration of roughness effects within the algorithms of the SMOS (ESA) and the SMAP (NASA) space missions.
Keywords: Soil moisture; Soil roughness; SMOS; L-band; Retrievals; Optical vegetation depth

Gobinda Chowdhury, An agenda for green information retrieval research, Information Processing & Management, Volume 48, Issue 6, November 2012, Pages 1067-1077, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2012.02.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457312000192)
Abstract: Nowadays we use information retrieval systems and services as part of our many day-to-day activities ranging from a web and database search to searching for various digital libraries, audio and video collections/services, and so on. However, IR systems and services make extensive use of ICT (information and communication technologies) and increasing use of ICT can significantly increase greenhouse gas (GHG, a term used to denote emission of harmful gases in the atmosphere) emissions. Sustainable development, and more importantly environmental sustainability, has become a major area of concern of various national and international bodies and as a result various initiatives and measures are being proposed for reducing the environmental impact of industries, businesses, governments and institutions. Research also shows that appropriate use of ICT can reduce the overall GHG emissions of a business, product or service. Green IT and cloud computing can play a key role in reducing the environmental impact of ICT. This paper proposes the concept of Green IR systems and services that can play a key role in reducing the overall environmental impact of various ICT-based services in education and research, business, government, etc., that are increasingly being reliant on access and use of digital information. However, to date there has not been any systematic research towards building Green IR systems and services. This paper points out the major challenges in building Green IR systems and services, and two different methods are proposed for estimating the energy consumption, and the corresponding GHG emissions, of an IR system or service. This paper also proposes the four key enablers of a Green IR viz. Standardize, Share, Reuse and Green behavior. Further research required to achieve these for building Green IR systems and services are also mentioned.
Keywords: Green IR; Cloud computing; Information retrieval; Green IT; Environmental sustainability; Sustainable development

Аndrey Bril, Shamil Maksyutov, Dmitry Belikov, Sergey Oshchepkov, Yukio Yoshida, Nicholas M. Deutscher, David Griffith, Frank Hase, Rigel Kivi, Isamu Morino, Justus Notholt, David F. Pollard, Ralf Sussmann, Voltaire A. Velazco, Thorsten Warneke, EOF-based regression algorithm for the fast retrieval of atmospheric CO2 total column amount from the GOSAT observations, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 189, March 2017, Pages 258-266, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2016.12.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407316304484)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a novel retrieval algorithm for the rapid retrieval of the carbon dioxide total column amounts from high resolution spectra in the short wave infrared (SWIR) range observations by the Greenhouse gases Observing Satellite (GOSAT). The algorithm performs EOF (Empirical Orthogonal Function)-based decomposition of the measured spectral radiance and derives the relationship of limited number of the decomposition coefficients in terms of the principal components with target gas amount and a priori data such as airmass, surface pressure, etc. The regression formulae for retrieving target gas amounts are derived using training sets of collocated GOSAT and ground-based observations. The precision/accuracy characteristics of the algorithm are analyzed by the comparison of the retrievals with those from the Total Carbon Column Observing Network (TCCON) measurements and with the modeled data, and appear similar to those achieved by full-physics retrieval algorithms.
Keywords: Carbon dioxide; Retrieval algorithm; Empirical orthogonal function; GOSAT; TCCON

Zachary B. Millman, James Goss, Jason Schiffman, Johana Mejias, Tina Gupta, Vijay A. Mittal, Mismatch and lexical retrieval gestures are associated with visual information processing, verbal production, and symptomatology in youth at high risk for psychosis, Schizophrenia Research, Volume 158, Issues 1–3, September 2014, Pages 64-68, ISSN 0920-9964, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.schres.2014.06.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920996414002989)
Abstract: AbstractIntroduction
Gesture is integrally linked with language and cognitive systems, and recent years have seen a growing attention to these movements in patients with schizophrenia. To date, however, there have been no investigations of gesture in youth at ultra high risk (UHR) for psychosis. Examining gesture in UHR individuals may help to elucidate other widely recognized communicative and cognitive deficits in this population and yield new clues for treatment development.
Method
In this study, mismatch (indicating semantic incongruency between the content of speech and a given gesture) and retrieval (used during pauses in speech while a person appears to be searching for a word or idea) gestures were evaluated in 42 UHR individuals and 36 matched healthy controls. Cognitive functions relevant to gesture production (i.e., speed of visual information processing and verbal production) as well as positive and negative symptomatologies were assessed.
Results
Although the overall frequency of cases exhibiting these behaviors was low, UHR individuals produced substantially more mismatch and retrieval gestures than controls. The UHR group also exhibited significantly poorer verbal production performance when compared with controls. In the patient group, mismatch gestures were associated with poorer visual processing speed and elevated negative symptoms, while retrieval gestures were associated with higher speed of visual information-processing and verbal production, but not symptoms.
Conclusions
Taken together these findings indicate that gesture abnormalities are present in individuals at high risk for psychosis. While mismatch gestures may be closely related to disease processes, retrieval gestures may be employed as a compensatory mechanism.
Keywords: Gesture; UHR; Prodromale cognition; Lexical retrieval; Speech–gesture mismatches

Chaoran Cui, Peiguang Lin, Xiushan Nie, Yilong Yin, Qingfeng Zhu, Hybrid textual-visual relevance learning for content-based image retrieval, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Available online 11 March 2017, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2017.03.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320317300731)
Abstract: Abstract
Learning effective relevance measures plays a crucial role in improving the performance of content-based image retrieval (CBIR) systems. Despite extensive research efforts for decades, how to discover and incorporate semantic information of images still poses a formidable challenge to real-world CBIR systems. In this paper, we propose a novel hybrid textual-visual relevance learning method, which mines textual relevance from image tags and combines textual relevance and visual relevance for CBIR. To alleviate the sparsity and unreliability of tags, we first perform tag completion to fill the missing tags as well as correct noisy tags of images. Then, we capture users’ semantic cognition to images by representing each image as a probability distribution over the permutations of tags. Finally, instead of early fusion, a ranking aggregation strategy is adopted to sew up textual relevance and visual relevance seamlessly. Extensive experiments on two benchmark datasets well verified the promise of our approach.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Tag completion; Semantics modeling; Rank aggregation; Sparse linear method

Teng-yang TAO, Ming ZHAO, An Ontology-Based Information Retrieval Model for Vegetables E-Commerce, Journal of Integrative Agriculture, Volume 11, Issue 5, May 2012, Pages 800-807, ISSN 2095-3119, https://doi.org/10.1016/S2095-3119(12)60070-7.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095311912600707)
Abstract: With the rapid increment of the information on the web, traditional information retrieval based on the keywords is far from user's satisfaction in recall and precision. In order to improve the recall ratio and the precision radio of IR engine in the vegetables e-commerce, an information retrieval model based on the vegetables e-commerce ontology is presented in this paper, vegetables e-commerce ontology was constructed by gathering and the analyzing vegetables e-commerce domain information on the web. The vegetables e-commerce ontology is composed of some kinds of vegetable classes and hierarchy relationship of vegetables classes. In the process of information retrieval, domain ontology helps to index information and information inference. An ontology-based information retrieval model is implemented, and which has more functions than the keyword-based web information retrieval engines. The experiment results show that the recall ratio and the precision ratio of ontology-based information retrieval model are higher than that of the information retrieval engine based on keyword at a certain extent.
Key words: domain-ontology; vegetables e-commerce; information retrieval

Mauro Dragoni, Célia da Costa Pereira, Andrea G.B. Tettamanzi, A conceptual representation of documents and queries for information retrieval systems by using light ontologies, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 39, Issue 12, 15 September 2012, Pages 10376-10388, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2012.01.188.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417412002163)
Abstract: This article presents a vector space model approach to representing documents and queries, based on concepts instead of terms and using WordNet as a light ontology. Such representation reduces information overlap with respect to classic semantic expansion techniques. Experiments carried out on the MuchMore benchmark and on the TREC-7 and TREC-8 Ad-Hoc collections demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Keywords: Conceptual representation; Lexica; Ontologies; Intelligent information retrieval

B.J. Elash, A.E. Bourassa, L.A. Rieger, S.R. Dueck, D.J. Zawada, D.A. Degenstein, The sensitivity to polarization in stratospheric aerosol retrievals from limb scattered sunlight measurements, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 189, March 2017, Pages 75-85, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2016.11.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407316304976)
Abstract: Abstract
Satellite measurements of limb scattered sunlight at visible and near infrared wavelengths have been used successfully for several years to retrieve the vertical profile of stratospheric aerosol extinction coefficient. The existing satellite measurements are of the total radiance, with very little knowledge or impact of the polarization state of the limb radiance. Recently proposed instrument concepts for stratospheric aerosol profiling have been designed to measure the linearly polarized radiance. Yet, to date, the impact of the polarized measurement on the retrievals has not been systematically studied. Here we use a fully spherical, multiple scattering radiative transfer model to perform a sensitivity study on the effects of the polarized measurement on stratospheric aerosol extinction retrievals through specific investigations of the aerosol signal fraction in polarized measurements, potential retrieval bias, and achievable precision. In this study,we simulate both total and linearly polarized measurements, for a wide range of limb viewing geometries that are encountered in typical low earth orbits and for various aerosol loading scenarios. The orientation of the linear polarization with respect to the horizon is also studied. Taking into account instrument signal to noise levels it is found that in general, the linear polarization can be used as effectively as the total radiance measurement, with consideration of instrument signal to noise capabilities; however the horizontal polarization is more promising in terms of signal magnitude.
Keywords: Stratosphere; Aerosol; Limb scattering; Retrieval; Polarization

Lianli Gao, Yuan Wang, Dongsheng Li, Junming Shao, Jingkuan Song, Real-time social media retrieval with spatial, temporal and social constraints, Neurocomputing, Available online 9 March 2017, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.11.078.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217304484)
Abstract: Abstract
Search in social network is continuously being expanded to enhance user experience. Besides basic textual retrieval, users can also search based on features such as spatial proximity, temporal freshness and/or social closeness. To efficiently process each advanced query type, customized indexing mechanisms have been developed. However, such mechanisms only perform well for the query types that they were designed for; moreover, they are not readily adaptable to support other query types. In this paper, we propose an interval-at-a-time (IAAT) framework as a first attempt to provide a one-size-fits-all solution to social media retrieval with spatial, temporal and social constraints. In addition, the algorithm relies on inverted index only, which makes it compatible with conventional search engines. The inverted lists are sorted by document id and the insertion is very fast because only append operation is involved. Experiments conducted on two large-scale Twitter datasets show that though IAAT is a unified strategy, it performs better than most of the state-of-the-art customized solutions in a variety of query types.
Keywords: Social media retrieval; Inverted index; Interval-at-a-time

Cinthya Estrada-Manilla, Selene Cansino, Event-related potential variations in the encoding and retrieval of different amounts of contextual information, Behavioural Brain Research, Volume 232, Issue 1, 15 June 2012, Pages 190-201, ISSN 0166-4328, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbr.2012.04.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166432812002628)
Abstract: Episodic memory events occur within multidimensional contexts; however, the electrophysiological manifestations associated with processing of more than one context have been rarely investigated. The effect of the amount of context on the ERPs was studied using two single and one double source memory tasks and by comparing full and partial context retrieval within a double source task. The single source tasks elicited waveforms with a larger amplitude during successful encoding and retrieval than the double source task. Compared with the waveforms elicited with a full source response, a partial source response elicited waveforms with a smaller amplitude, probably because the retrieval success for one context was combined with the retrieval attempt processes for the missing source. Comparing the tasks revealed that the larger the amount of contextual information processed, the smaller the amplitude of the ERPs, indicating that greater effort or further control processes were required during double source retrieval.
Keywords: Episodic memory; Source memory; Amount of contextual information; Event related potentials; Encoding; Retrieval

Xiangpeng Li, Lianli Gao, Xing Xu, Jie Shao, Fumin Shen, Jingkuan Song, Kernel based latent semantic sparse hashing for large-scale retrieval from heterogeneous data sources, Neurocomputing, Available online 8 March 2017, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.11.081.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217304538)
Abstract: Abstract
Recent years, we have witnessed the growing popularity of integrating nearest neighbor search with hashing for effective and efficient similarity search. However, most of the previous cross-modal hashing methods didn’t consider the semantic correlation between multi-modal representations and directly project the heterogeneous data into a joint space using a linear projection. To address these challenges and bridge the semantic gap more efficiently. We proposed a method named kernel based latent semantic sparse hashing (KLSSH) in this paper. We firstly capture high-level latent semantic information and then use the equivalence between optimizing the code inner products and the Hamming distances. More specifically, KLSSH firstly employs sparse coding for obtaining primary latent features of image and matrix factorization for generating features of text concepts to learn latent semantic features in a high level abstraction space. Next, it maps the latent semantic feature to compact binary codes using kernel method. Kernel scheme ensures to sequentially and efficiently train the hash functions one bit at a time and then generate very short and discriminative hash codes. Moreover, it reduces the quantization loss obviously at the same time and makes the retrieval performance better. Experiments conducted on three benchmark multi-modal datasets demonstrate the superiority of our proposed method compared with the state-of-the-art techniques.
Keywords: Hashing; Cross-modal retrieval; Sparse coding; Matrix factorization; Kernel method

Anan Liu, Wenhui Li, Weizhi Nie, Yuting Su, 3D models retrieval algorithm based on multimodal data, Neurocomputing, Available online 14 February 2017, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.06.087.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217302564)
Abstract: Abstract
With the development of computer vision in recent year, 3D models have been utilized in many applications, such as virtual reality, medical surgical, geographic information system. With the growth of 3D models, it is necessary to develop effective 3D model retrieval methods for data management. In this paper, we proposed a novel algorithm based on multimodal 3D model data to handle model retrieval problem. First, we extract structure information and visual information from each virtual 3D model. Then, a universal graph matching is employed to handle similarity measure in different modals respectively. Finally, a simple statistical model is utilized to handle similarity measure and finish retrieval process. The final comparing experiments demonstrate the superiority of our approach.
Keywords: 3D model retrieval; Multimodal; Multimodal fusion

Hedi Tabia, Hamid Laga, Learning shape retrieval from different modalities, Neurocomputing, Available online 8 March 2017, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2017.01.101.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217304617)
Abstract: Abstract
We propose in this paper a new framework for 3D shape retrieval using queries of different modalities, which can include 3D models, images and sketches. The main scientific challenge is that different modalities have different representations and thus lie in different spaces. Moreover, the features that can be extracted from 2D images or 2D sketches are often different from those that can be computed from 3D models. Our solution is a new method based on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) that embeds all these entities into a common space. We propose a novel 3D shape descriptor based on local CNN features encoded using vectors of locally aggregated descriptors instead of conventional global CNN. Using a kernel function computed from 3D shape similarity, we build a target space in which wild images and sketches can be projected via two different CNNs. With this construction, matching can be performed in the common target space between same entities (sketch–sketch, image–image and 3D shape–3D shape) and more importantly across different entities (sketch-image, sketch-3D shape and image-3D shape). We demonstrate the performance of the proposed framework using different benchmarks including large scale SHREC 3D datasets.
Keywords: Multimodal 3D retrieval; Convolutional Neural Networks; 3D shape; Object retrieval; Sketch retrieval

Sixiu Chen, Fumin Shen, Yang Yang, Xing Xu, Jingkuan Song, Supervised hashing with adaptive discrete optimization for multimedia retrieval, Neurocomputing, Available online 8 March 2017, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.10.088.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217304526)
Abstract: Abstract
Hashing techniques show significant advantage in dealing with enormous high-dimensional image and multimedia data. Specifically, learning based hashing methods attract a lot of attention from researchers thanks to its great performance in image retrieval. But discrete constraint problem of learning based hashing methods makes the optimization extremely difficult, which can be shown to be NP hard. Thus, most of learning based hashing methods relax the constraint and get a suboptimal result. Recently, some researchers propose discrete optimization hashing techniques to learn hash bits without any relaxation and achieve promising results. But, discrete optimization hashing method like Supervised Discrete Hashing (SDH) roughly renews all binary codes and leads to a time-consuming problem. In this paper, we propose an adaptive discrete cyclic coordinate descent (ACC) method to effectively solve discrete optimization problem. The specific objective of our study is to boost the efficiency of discrete hash optimization with equivalent performance. We evaluate the proposed method on image and multimedia databases: CIFAR-10, NUS-WIDE and MIRFLickr-25k and show that our method achieves speed-up over compared the state-of-the-art methods, while having on-par and in some cases even better performance.
Keywords: Hashing; Adaptive discrete optimization; Multimedia retrieval

Adam Grzywaczewski, Rahat Iqbal, Task-specific information retrieval systems for software engineers, Journal of Computer and System Sciences, Volume 78, Issue 4, July 2012, Pages 1204-1218, ISSN 0022-0000, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcss.2011.10.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022000011001152)
Abstract: This paper discusses the development of task-specific information retrieval systems for software engineers. We discuss how software engineers interact with information and information retrieval systems and investigate to what extent a domain-specific search and recommendation system can be developed in order to support their work related activities. We have conducted a user study which is based on the “Cognitive Research Framework” to identify the relation between the information objects used during the code development (code snippets and search queries), the tasks users engage in and the associated use of search interfaces. Based on our user studies, a questionnaire and an automated observation of user interactions with the browser and software development environment, we identify that software engineers engage in a finite number of work related tasks and they also develop a finite number of “work practices”/“archetypes of behaviour”. Secondly we identify a group of domain specific behaviours that can successfully be used as a source of strong implicit relevance feedback. Based on our results, we design a snippet recommendation interface, and a code related recommendation interface which are embedded within the standard search engine.
Keywords: Domain-specific information retrieval; Implicit feedback; Collaborative filtering; Contextualization of information retrieval

Ben Steichen, Helen Ashman, Vincent Wade, A comparative survey of Personalised Information Retrieval and Adaptive Hypermedia techniques, Information Processing & Management, Volume 48, Issue 4, July 2012, Pages 698-724, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2011.12.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457311001178)
Abstract: A key driver for next generation web information retrieval systems is becoming the degree to which a user’s search and presentation experience is adapted to individual user properties and contexts of use. Over the past decades, two parallel threads of personalisation research have emerged, one originating in the document space in the area of Personalised Information Retrieval (PIR) and the other arising from the hypertext space in the field of Adaptive Hypermedia (AH).

PIR typically aims to bias search results towards more personally relevant information by modifying traditional document ranking algorithms. Such techniques tend to represent users with simplified personas (often based on historic interests), enabling the efficient calculation of personalised ranked lists. On the other hand, the field of Adaptive Hypermedia (AH) has addressed the challenge of biasing content retrieval and presentation by adapting towards multiple characteristics. These characteristics, more typically called personalisation “dimensions”, include user goals or prior knowledge, enabling adaptive and personalised result compositions and navigations.

The question arises as to whether it is possible to provide a comparison of PIR and AH, where the respective strengths and limitations can be exposed, but also where potential complementary affordances can be identified. This survey investigates the key techniques and impacts in the use of PIR and AH technology in order to identify such affordances and limitations. In particular, the techniques are analysed by examining key activities in the retrieval process, namely (i) query adaptation, (ii) adaptive retrieval and (iii) adaptive result composition and presentation. In each of these areas, the survey identifies individual strengths and limitations. Following this comparison of techniques, the paper also illustrates an example of a potential synergy in a hybridised approach, where adaptation can be tailored in different aspects of PIR and AH systems. Moreover, the concerns resulting from interdependencies and the respective tradeoffs of techniques are discussed, along with potential future directions and remaining challenges.
Keywords: Adaptive Hypermedia; Personalised Information Retrieval; Query adaptation; Adaptive composition; Adaptive presentation; Adaptive web

Katherine C. Moen, Jeremy K. Miller, Marianne E. Lloyd, Selective attention meets spontaneous recognition memory: Evidence for effects at retrieval, Consciousness and Cognition, Volume 49, March 2017, Pages 181-189, ISSN 1053-8100, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.concog.2017.02.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053810016302124)
Abstract: Abstract
Previous research on the effects of Divided Attention on recognition memory have shown consistent impairments during encoding but more variable effects at retrieval. The present study explored whether effects of Selective Attention at retrieval and subsequent testing were parallel to those of Divided Attention. Participants studied a list of pictures and then had a recognition memory test that included both full attention and selective attention (the to be responded to object was overlaid atop a blue outlined object) trials. All participants then completed a second recognition memory test. The results of 2 experiments suggest that subsequent tests consistently show impacts of the status of the ignored stimulus, and that having an initial test changes performance on a later test. The results are discussed in relation to effect of attention on memory more generally as well as spontaneous recognition memory research.
Keywords: Selective attention; Recognition memory; Test order; Encoding; Retrieval

Hong Zhou, Bing-wu Liu, Jun Liu, Research on Mechanism of the Information Retrieval Based on Ontology Label, Procedia Engineering, Volume 29, 2012, Pages 4259-4266, ISSN 1877-7058, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.proeng.2012.01.654.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877705812006649)
Abstract: The problem of simple interaction between semantic retrieval and the retrieval result information und the context of the Chinese can not be solved effectively through the traditional information retrieval mechanism. The research into the methods of information retrieval is carried out by introducing ontology and label mechanism in this paper. The relevant research into the ontology label extraction methods and ontology label construction mechanism based on KowNet is carried out, the information retrieval mechanism and relevant retrieval model based on ontology label is put forward and the corresponding work of the combination of label phrase and ontology modularization is dealt with.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Ontology; Label; Semantics ;

Qiusheng Lian, Baoshun Shi, Shuzhen Chen, Transfer orthogonal sparsifying transform learning for phase retrieval, Digital Signal Processing, Volume 62, March 2017, Pages 11-25, ISSN 1051-2004, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dsp.2016.10.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S105120041630183X)
Abstract: Abstract
The phase retrieval (PR) problem of recovering an image from its Fourier magnitudes is an important issue. Several PR algorithms have been proposed to address this problem. Recent efforts of exploiting sparsity were developed to improve the performance of PR algorithms, such as the reconstruction quality, robustness to noise, and convergence behavior. In this paper, we propose a novel sparsity-based algorithm, which can adaptively learn an orthogonal sparsifying transform, and reconstruct the image simultaneously from the Fourier magnitudes. However, the estimated images at the early iterations are extremely bad. Training samples from these images cannot provide much useful information for sparsifying transform learning. To avoid unnecessary updating, an orthogonal sparsifying transform learning method based on transfer learning is proposed. Through transfer learning, we transfer the fixed sparsifying transform to an adaptive one. We apply this new sparsifying transform learning method to PR, and exploit the alternating directions method of multipliers (ADMM) technique to solve the formulated problem. Since the learnt sparsifying transform is adaptive to data, it favors better sparsity. Using this learnt sparsifying transform for image reconstruction can improve the reconstruction quality at low oversampling ratios. Experimental results show that the proposed PR algorithm can improve nearly 6 dB compared with the recently proposed PR-TIHP- l 1 algorithm in terms of the average PSNR (Peak Signal to Noise Ratio) at oversampling ratio 2.47, 2.53, 2.59. Moreover, our algorithm is robust to noise and has better convergence behavior heuristically.
Keywords: Sparsifying transform learning; Phase retrieval; Image processing; Transfer learning

Jie Qin, Li Liu, Mengyang Yu, Yunhong Wang, Ling Shao, Fast action retrieval from videos via feature disaggregation, Computer Vision and Image Understanding, Volume 156, March 2017, Pages 104-116, ISSN 1077-3142, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cviu.2016.09.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1077314216301436)
Abstract: Abstract
Learning based hashing methods, which aim at learning similarity-preserving binary codes for efficient nearest neighbor search, have been actively studied recently. A majority of the approaches address hashing problems for image collections. However, due to the extra temporal information, videos are usually represented by much higher dimensional (thousands or even more) features compared with images, causing high computational complexity for conventional hashing schemes. In this paper, we propose a simple and efficient hashing scheme for high-dimensional video data. This method, called Disaggregation Hashing (DH), exploits the correlations among different feature dimensions. An intuitive feature disaggregation method is first proposed, followed by a novel hashing algorithm based on different feature clusters. Additionally, a kernelized version of DH is proposed for better performance. We demonstrate the efficiency and effectiveness of our method by theoretical analysis and exploring its application on action retrieval from video databases. Extensive experiments show the superiority of our binary coding scheme over state-of-the-art hashing methods.
Keywords: Similarity search; Video retrieval; Feature disaggregation; Learning based hashing

E. Berthier, C. Ridereau-Zins, L. Dubé, P. Tchouante, C. Nedelcu, S. Lasocki, C. Aubé, Simultaneous CT angiography and whole-body CT is an effective imaging approach before multiorgan retrieval, Diagnostic and Interventional Imaging, Volume 98, Issue 3, March 2017, Pages 235-243, ISSN 2211-5684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diii.2016.05.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211568416301516)
Abstract: AbstractPurpose
To assess the role of whole-body computed tomography (CT) for determining morphological suitability before multiorgan retrieval (MOR) in brain dead patients.
Materials and methods
Fifty-one clinically brain dead patients (21 women, 30 men; mean age 61 year ± 15) were included in this prospective, single center study. All patients had CT angiography of the brain and whole-body CT examination. CT images were evaluated for the presence of morphological abnormalities of lungs, liver and other abdominal organs and presence of vascular anatomical variants. The results of CT examinations were compared to intraoperative findings observed during organ harvesting and/or the results of histopathological analysis of biopsy specimens. The impact of whole-body CT examination on the harvesting process was evaluated.
Results
Ninety-five percent of vascular anatomical variants that were found intraoperatively were depicted on CT. CT density measurements predicted surgical finding of steatosis in 80% of patients. Whole-body CT changed the MOR strategy in 21/51 patients (41%) including 3 MOR cancellations and 8 grafts refusals, whereas organ harvesting was continued in 10 patients after histopathological analysis was performed.
Conclusion
Selection of potential graft donors using whole-body CT is reliable and improves graft selection during MOR.
Keywords: Computed tomography; Organ donation; Donor selection. Multiorgan retrieval

Travis Gagie, Gonzalo Navarro, Simon J. Puglisi, New algorithms on wavelet trees and applications to information retrieval, Theoretical Computer Science, Volumes 426–427, 6 April 2012, Pages 25-41, ISSN 0304-3975, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tcs.2011.12.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304397511009625)
Abstract: Wavelet trees are widely used in the representation of sequences, permutations, text collections, binary relations, discrete points, and other succinct data structures. We show, however, that this still falls short of exploiting all of the virtues of this versatile data structure. In particular we show how to use wavelet trees to solve fundamental algorithmic problems such as range quantile queries, range next value queries, and range intersection queries. We explore several applications of these queries in Information Retrieval, in particular document retrieval in hierarchical and temporal documents, and in the representation of inverted lists.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Document retrieval; Data structures; 1D range queries; Wavelet trees

Gloria Bordogna, Giorgio Ghisalberti, Giuseppe Psaila, Geographic information retrieval: Modeling uncertainty of user's context, Fuzzy Sets and Systems, Volume 196, 1 June 2012, Pages 105-124, ISSN 0165-0114, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fss.2011.04.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165011411001679)
Abstract: Geographic information retrieval (GIR) is nowadays a hot research issue that involves the management of uncertainty and imprecision and the modeling of user preferences and context. Indexing the geographic content of documents implies dealing with the ambiguity, synonymy and homonymy of geographic names in texts. On the other side, the evaluation of queries specifying both content based conditions and spatial conditions on documents’ contents requires representing the vagueness and context dependency of spatial conditions and the personal user's preferences. The spatial condition can be specified linguistically in the query through vague terms such as “close to the North East of Milan’’, whose semantic depends on the user's context and perception of distance. Further, users may want to express queries in which the content condition and the spatial condition have a distinct preference and are combined with a distinct semantics. In this paper, we propose a geographic information retrieval model and a system implementing it that represents both the uncertainty in indexing the geographic documents’ content and the user's context and preferences in evaluating flexible spatial queries. It extracts the geographic content from documents’ text by applying heuristic knowledge coded by bipolar rules which evaluate positive hints and negative hints for the recognition of geographic names in text. Thus, it represents the geographic content of documents by fuzzy footprints, i.e., distinct locations on the earth associated with the text with a distinct degree of significance. Finally, the system allows evaluating two types of queries flexibly combining the content based condition with the spatial condition. The spatial condition is interpreted as the soft constraint “close’’ on the user's perceived distance between the documents’ footprint and query's footprint. For each retrieved document, two relevance scores are computed with respect to the two query conditions that are flexibly combined to generate an overall ranked list of documents. The user can choose the semantic for the combination that can be either an asymmetric “and possibly’’ aggregation between the mandatory content condition and the optional spatial condition, or a compensative “average’’ aggregation, defined as a linear combination of the two conditions; further, a relative preference between the conditions can be specified to achieve personalization and effectiveness. A prototypal geographic information retrieval system, named Geo-Finder, based on this model is described, and its evaluations are discussed.
Keywords: Geographic information retrieval; Fuzzy aggregation operators; Bipolar criteria evaluation; Geographic footprint; Context dependent spatial query; Soft constraint

Marius Kaminskas, Francesco Ricci, Contextual music information retrieval and recommendation: State of the art and challenges, Computer Science Review, Volume 6, Issues 2–3, May 2012, Pages 89-119, ISSN 1574-0137, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cosrev.2012.04.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574013712000135)
Abstract: Increasing amount of online music content has opened new opportunities for implementing new effective information access services–commonly known as music recommender systems–that support music navigation, discovery, sharing, and formation of user communities. In the recent years a new research area of contextual (or situational) music recommendation and retrieval has emerged. The basic idea is to retrieve and suggest music depending on the user’s actual situation, for instance emotional state, or any other contextual conditions that might influence the user’s perception of music. Despite the high potential of such idea, the development of real-world applications that retrieve or recommend music depending on the user’s context is still in its early stages. This survey illustrates various tools and techniques that can be used for addressing the research challenges posed by context-aware music retrieval and recommendation. This survey covers a broad range of topics, starting from classical music information retrieval (MIR) and recommender system (RS) techniques, and then focusing on context-aware music applications as well as the newer trends of affective and social computing applied to the music domain.
Keywords: Music information retrieval; Music recommender systems; Context-aware services; Affective computing; Social computing

Sarah K. Tauber, Amber E. Witherby, John Dunlosky, Katherine A. Rawson, Adam L. Putnam, Henry L. Roediger III, Does Covert Retrieval Benefit Learning of Key-Term Definitions?, Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition, Available online 3 January 2017, ISSN 2211-3681, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jarmac.2016.10.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211368116301292)
Abstract: Even though retrieval practice typically has a robust, positive influence on memory, response format (overt vs. covert retrieval) may moderate its effect when students learn complex material. Overt retrieval is likely to promote exhaustive retrieval, whereas covert retrieval may not be exhaustive for familiar key terms. In two experiments, students were instructed to study key-term definitions and were asked to practice retrieval overtly, to practice retrieval covertly, or to restudy the definitions. Students also made metacognitive judgments. A final criterion test was administered two days later. Students’ final recall was greater after overt retrieval practice than after covert retrieval practice or restudy, with a continuously cumulating meta-analysis establishing the effect as moderate in size (pooled d = 0.43). Thus, response format does matter for learning definitions of key terms, supporting the recommendation that students use overt retrieval when using retrieval practice as a strategy to learn complex materials.
Keywords: Covert retrieval; Retrieval practice; Key-term definitions; Monitoring of learning; Metacognition

Andrea Addis, Giuliano Armano, Eloisa Vargiu, Multiagent systems and information retrieval our experience with X.MAS, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 39, Issue 3, 15 February 2012, Pages 2509-2523, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2011.08.103.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417411012346)
Abstract: Autonomous agents and multiagent systems have been successfully applied to a number of problems and have been largely used in different application fields. In particular, in this paper we are interested in information retrieval. In fact, in this field multiagent solutions are very useful and effective since they decouple the problem in a network of software agents that interact to solve problems that are beyond the individual capabilities or knowledge. In so doing, multiagent systems allow to overwhelm typical problems of single agent and centralized approaches. To discuss the lesson learnt in using the multiagent technology in the field of information retrieval, in this paper, we present our experience in using X.MAS, a generic multiagent architecture aimed at retrieving, filtering and reorganizing information according to user interests. To this end, after presenting X.MAS, we illustrate six applications built upon it. Our conclusion is that multiagent technology is quite effective to design and realize concrete information retrieval applications.
Keywords: Multiagent systems; Information retrieval; Applications

Shuhui Bu, Lei Wang, Pengcheng Han, Zhenbao Liu, Ke Li, 3D shape recognition and retrieval based on multi-modality deep learning, Neurocomputing, Available online 28 February 2017, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.06.088.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217302576)
Abstract: Abstract
For 3D shape analysis, an effective and efficient feature is the key to popularize its applications in 3D domain where the major challenge lies in designing an effective high-level feature. The three-dimensional shape contains various useful information including visual information, geometric relationships, and other type properties. Thus the strategy of exploring these characteristics is the core of extracting effective 3D shape features. In this paper, we propose a novel 3D feature learning framework which combines different modality data effectively to promote the discriminability of uni-modal feature by using deep learning. The geometric information and visual information are extracted by Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) and Convolutional Deep Belief Networks (CDBNs), respectively, and then two independent Deep Belief Networks (DBNs) are employed to learn high-level features from geometric and visual features. Finally, a Restricted Boltzmann Machine (RBM) is trained for mining the deep correlations between different modalities. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed framework achieves better performance.
Keywords: 3D shape; Recognition; Retrieval; Deep learning; Multi modality

Abebe Rorissa, Xiaojun Yuan, Visualizing and mapping the intellectual structure of information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 48, Issue 1, January 2012, Pages 120-135, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2011.03.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457311000318)
Abstract: Information retrieval is a long established subfield of library and information science. Since its inception in the early- to mid -1950s, it has grown as a result, in part, of well-regarded retrieval system evaluation exercises/campaigns, the proliferation of Web search engines, and the expansion of digital libraries. Although researchers have examined the intellectual structure and nature of the general field of library and information science, the same cannot be said about the subfield of information retrieval. We address that in this work by sketching the information retrieval intellectual landscape through visualizations of citation behaviors. Citation data for 10 years (2000–2009) were retrieved from the Web of Science and analyzed using existing visualization techniques. Our results address information retrieval’s co-authorship network, highly productive authors, highly cited journals and papers, author-assigned keywords, active institutions, and the import of ideas from other disciplines.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Citation analysis; Bibliometrics; Informetrics; Domain analysis

Shana K. Carpenter, Kam Leung Yeung, The role of mediator strength in learning from retrieval, Journal of Memory and Language, Volume 92, February 2017, Pages 128-141, ISSN 0749-596X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jml.2016.06.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0749596X16300535)
Abstract: Abstract
Previous studies have provided support for the idea that information activated during retrieval can act as a mediator that facilitates later recall of a target. Evidence for this has been obtained from a paradigm involving independent cues in which participants initially learn cue-target pairs through retrieval (Mother: _____) or restudying (Mother: Child), and later show stronger benefits of retrieval over restudy in recalling targets from final test cues that are strongly related to the original cue (Father: _____) compared to cues that are unrelated to the original cues (Birth: _____). The current study used a new paradigm to explore the role of mediators in learning from retrieval by comparing the advantage of retrieval over restudying for cue-target pairs that varied in mediator strength (i.e., the strength of the strongest first associate to the cue). Across three experiments, items higher in mediator strength (e.g., Chalk: Crayon, with Chalk producing its strongest first associate Board at a rate of .69) produced stronger testing effects than items lower in mediator strength (e.g., Soup: Onion, with Soup producing its strongest first associate Chicken at a rate of .10). Item analyses revealed that mediator strength was positively associated with final test recall of items learned through retrieval but not through restudying, and this relationship held after controlling for other linguistic properties of the cues.
Keywords: Testing effect; Retrieval practice; Elaborative retrieval; Mediators

Rafael Rodisanski Patricio, Juliana Carlota Kramer Soares, Maria Gabriela Menezes Oliveira, M1 muscarinic receptors are necessary for retrieval of remote context fear memory, Physiology & Behavior, Volume 169, 1 February 2017, Pages 202-207, ISSN 0031-9384, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physbeh.2016.12.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031938416306217)
Abstract: Abstract
Several studies have investigated the transition of consolidation of recent memory to remote memory in aversively motivated tasks, such as contextual fear conditioning (CFC) and inhibitory avoidance (IA). However, the mechanisms that serve the retrieval of remote memories, has not yet been fully understood. Some evidences suggest that the central cholinergic system appears be involved in the modulation of these processes. Therefore, the present study aimed to investigate the effects of a pre-test administration of dicyclomine, a high-affinity M1 muscarinic receptor antagonist, on the retrieval of remote memories in fear conditioning and IA tasks. Male Wistar rats were trained, and after 1 or 28 days, the rats received dicyclomine (16 or 32 mg/kg, intraperitoneally, i.p.) and were tested in CFC, tone fear conditioning (TFC) and IA tasks. At both time intervals, 32 mg/kg dicyclomine induced impairment of CFC. In TFC task only the performance of the rats 28 days after training was impaired. The IA task was not affected in any of the studied intervals. These findings suggest a differential contribution of muscarinic receptors on recent and remote memories retrieval revealing a more generalized role in remote memory.
Keywords: Fear conditioning; Inhibitory avoidance; Memory retrieval; Remote memory; M1 receptor; Acetylcholine

Xiaoxing Liu, Changxia Hu, Research and Design on E-government Information Retrieval Model, Procedia Engineering, Volume 29, 2012, Pages 3170-3174, ISSN 1877-7058, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.proeng.2012.01.460.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877705812004705)
Abstract: At present, most government websites have not given full play to the internet's characteristic such as share, interaction. The public satisfaction is poor. Therefore, this article puts forward an e-government information retrieval model based on the metadata. Firstly it builds an e-government information resource database, and all kinds of different types of resources are uniformly stored in the resource database; Secondly, the resources are described by metadata, and e-government information resources metadata scheme is designed; Thirdly, the metadata extraction algorithm is designed to extract the metadata elements of e-government information resources; Finally, e-government information resources storage and retrieval schemes are designed. The experiment result shows that the information retrieval method based on metadata can improve the e-government information retrieval efficiency and precision, and realizes the share of e-government resources. Thus it is a practical approach for the task of e-government information retrieval.
Keywords: E-government; Metadata; Chinese lexical analysis; Information retrieval model; Dublin Core

Liu Xinhua, Zhang Xutang, Li zhongkai, A Domain Ontology-based Information Retrieval Approach for Technique Preparation, Physics Procedia, Volume 25, 2012, Pages 1582-1588, ISSN 1875-3892, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phpro.2012.03.279.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1875389212006955)
Abstract: In order to realize information sharing and information reuse of technique preparation process, idea of domain ontology was applied in technique preparation process. The concept of technique preparation domain ontology was proposed and its structure was designed. Moreover, the information retrieval framework for technique preparation based on domain ontology was put forward and the flowchart of the proposed approach was designed. Furthermore, the similarity relation between concepts was elaborated and the similarity computing approach of domain ontology was designed to resolve the problem of technique preparation information similarity. Finally, an application case was illustrated and the information retrieval approach was proved efficient.
Keywords: Technique Preparation; Information Retrieval; Domain Ontology; Similarity Computing

Songjie Gong, The Personalized Information Retrieval Model Based on User Interest, Physics Procedia, Volume 24, Part B, 2012, Pages 817-821, ISSN 1875-3892, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phpro.2012.02.122.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1875389212001654)
Abstract: Personalized information retrieval systems can help customers to gain orientation in information overload by determining which items are relevant for their interests. One type of information retrieval is content-based filtering. In content-based filtering, items contain words in natural language. Meanings of words in natural language are often ambiguous. The problem of word meaning disambiguation is often decomposed to determining semantic similarity of words. In this paper, the architecture of personalized information retrieval based on user interest is presented. The architecture includes user interface model, user interest model, detecting interest model and update model. It established a user model for personalized information retrieval based on user interest keyword list on client server, which can supply personalized information retrieval service for user with the communications and collaboration of all modules of the architecture.
Keywords: personalized information serivice; information retrieval; user interest; content-based filtering; collaborative filtering

P. Sorg, P. Cimiano, Exploiting Wikipedia for cross-lingual and multilingual information retrieval, Data & Knowledge Engineering, Volume 74, April 2012, Pages 26-45, ISSN 0169-023X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2012.02.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X12000213)
Abstract: In this article we show how Wikipedia as a multilingual knowledge resource can be exploited for Cross-Language and Multilingual Information Retrieval (CLIR/MLIR). We describe an approach we call Cross-Language Explicit Semantic Analysis (CL-ESA) which indexes documents with respect to explicit interlingual concepts. These concepts are considered as interlingual and universal and in our case correspond either to Wikipedia articles or categories. Each concept is associated to a text signature in each language which can be used to estimate language-specific term distributions for each concept. This knowledge can then be used to calculate the strength of association between a term and a concept which is used to map documents into the concept space. With CL-ESA we are thus moving from a Bag-Of-Words model to a Bag-Of-Concepts model that allows language-independent document representations in the vector space spanned by interlingual and universal concepts. We show how different vector-based retrieval models and term weighting strategies can be used in conjunction with CL-ESA and experimentally analyze the performance of the different choices. We evaluate the approach on a mate retrieval task on two datasets: JRC-Acquis and Multext. We show that in the MLIR settings, CL-ESA benefits from a certain level of abstraction in the sense that using categories instead of articles as in the original ESA model delivers better results.
Keywords: Cross-Lingual Information Retrieval; Concept-based Information Retrieval; Social Web; Wikipedia

Karl-Heinz T. Bäuml and Oliver Kliegl, Retrieval-Induced Remembering and Forgetting, In Reference Module in Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Psychology, Elsevier, 2017, ISBN 9780128093245, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-809324-5.21048-1.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128093245210481)
Abstract: Abstract
Selectively retrieving a subset of previously studied information enhances memory of the retrieved information but can cause forgetting of nonretrieved information. This chapter reviews the literature on such retrieval-induced forgetting (RIF), asking whether the forgetting depends on testing format, is retrieval specific and interference dependent, is modulated by retention interval after selective retrieval, and varies between individuals. The most prominent theoretical accounts of RIF are introduced and evaluated against the empirical findings. Also some more recent studies are reviewed, which indicate that, under certain conditions, selective retrieval can also improve memory of the nonretrieved information.
Keywords: Age; Blocking; Context change; Context reactivation; Individual differences; Inhibition; Output interference; Retrieval practice; Retrieval-induced forgetting; Retrieval-induced remembering; Selective retrieval; Testing effect; Two faces of retrieval; Working memory capacity

Sławomir Zadrożny, Janusz Kacprzyk, Guy De Tré, Bipolar queries in textual information retrieval: A new perspective, Information Processing & Management, Volume 48, Issue 3, May 2012, Pages 390-398, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2011.05.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457311000495)
Abstract: A new concept of a bipolar query against collections of textual documents, i.e. in the context of information retrieval (IR), is introduced using recent developments in bipolar information modeling and bipolar database queries. Specifically, a particular approach to bipolar queries with an explicit “and possibly” type of an aggregation operator is used. An effective and efficient processing of such bipolar queries using standard IR data structures is briefly discussed. The bipolar queries proposed combine a flexibility provided by fuzzy logic with a more sophisticated representation of user preferences and intentions. This combination can make the search of vast resources of textual document, notably those available via the Internet, more intelligent.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Bipolar information; Fuzzy logic; Query processing; Bipolar query

Ritika Bansal, Sonal Chawla, Design and development of semantic web-based system for computer science domain-specific information retrieval, Perspectives in Science, Volume 8, September 2016, Pages 330-333, ISSN 2213-0209, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pisc.2016.04.067.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213020916300891)
Abstract: Summary
In semantic web-based system, the concept of ontology is used to search results by contextual meaning of input query instead of keyword matching. From the research literature, there seems to be a need for a tool which can provide an easy interface for complex queries in natural language that can retrieve the domain-specific information from the ontology. This research paper proposes an IRSCSD system (Information retrieval system for computer science domain) as a solution. This system offers advanced querying and browsing of structured data with search results automatically aggregated and rendered directly in a consistent user-interface, thus reducing the manual effort of users. So, the main objective of this research is design and development of semantic web-based system for integrating ontology towards domain-specific retrieval support. Methodology followed is a piecemeal research which involves the following stages. First Stage involves the designing of framework for semantic web-based system. Second stage builds the prototype for the framework using Protégé tool. Third Stage deals with the natural language query conversion into SPARQL query language using Python-based QUEPY framework. Fourth Stage involves firing of converted SPARQL queries to the ontology through Apache's Jena API to fetch the results. Lastly, evaluation of the prototype has been done in order to ensure its efficiency and usability. Thus, this research paper throws light on framework development for semantic web-based system that assists in efficient retrieval of domain-specific information, natural language query interpretation into semantic web language, creation of domain-specific ontology and its mapping with related ontology. This research paper also provides approaches and metrics for ontology evaluation on prototype ontology developed to study the performance based on accessibility of required domain-related information.
Keywords: Semantic Web; Ontology; SPARQL; Protégé; QUEPY

Guang-Tong Zhou, Kai Ming Ting, Fei Tony Liu, Yilong Yin, Relevance feature mapping for content-based multimedia information retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Volume 45, Issue 4, April 2012, Pages 1707-1720, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2011.09.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320311003955)
Abstract: This paper presents a novel ranking framework for content-based multimedia information retrieval (CBMIR). The framework introduces relevance features and a new ranking scheme. Each relevance feature measures the relevance of an instance with respect to a profile of the targeted multimedia database. We show that the task of CBMIR can be done more effectively using the relevance features than the original features. Furthermore, additional performance gain is achieved by incorporating our new ranking scheme which modifies instance rankings based on the weighted average of relevance feature values. Experiments on image and music databases validate the efficacy and efficiency of the proposed framework.
Keywords: Content-based multimedia information retrieval; Ranking; Relevance feature; Relevance feedback; Isolation forest

Jonathan Strunk, Taylor James, Jason Arndt, Audrey Duarte, Age-related changes in neural oscillations supporting context memory retrieval, Cortex, Available online 3 February 2017, ISSN 0010-9452, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cortex.2017.01.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010945217300345)
Abstract: Abstract
Recent evidence suggests that directing attention toward single item-context associations during encoding improves young and older adults' context memory performance and reduces demands on executive functions during retrieval. In everyday situations, there are many event features competing for our attention, and our ability to successfully recover those details may depend on our ability to ignore others. Failures of selective attention may contribute to older adults' context memory impairments. In the current electroencephalogram (EEG) study, we assessed the effects of age on processes supporting successful context memory retrieval of selectively attended features as indexed by neural oscillations. During encoding, young and older adults were directed to attend to a picture of an object and its relationship to one of two concurrently presented contextual details: a color or scene. At retrieval, we tested their memory for the object, its attended and unattended context features, and their confidence for both the attended and unattended features. Both groups showed greater memory for attended than unattended contextual features. However, older adults showed evidence of hyper-binding between attended and unattended context features while the young adults did not. EEG results in the theta band suggest that young and older adults recollect similar amounts of information but brain-behavior correlations suggest that this information was supportive of contextual memory performance, particularly for young adults. By contrast, sustained beta desynchronization, indicative of sensory reactivation and episodic reconstruction, was correlated with contextual memory performance for older adults only. We conclude that older adults' inhibition deficits during encoding reduced the selectivity of their contextual memories, which led to reliance on executive functions like episodic reconstruction to support successful memory retrieval.
Keywords: Context memory; Retrieval; Aging; Theta; Beta

Malay Kumar Kundu, Manish Chowdhury, Sudeb Das, Interactive radiographic image retrieval system, Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine, Volume 139, February 2017, Pages 209-220, ISSN 0169-2607, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cmpb.2016.10.023.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169260716301766)
Abstract: AbstractBackground and Objective
Content based medical image retrieval (CBMIR) systems enable fast diagnosis through quantitative assessment of the visual information and is an active research topic over the past few decades. Most of the state-of-the-art CBMIR systems suffer from various problems: computationally expensive due to the usage of high dimensional feature vectors and complex classifier/clustering schemes. Inability to properly handle the “semantic gap” and the high intra-class versus inter-class variability problem of the medical image database (like radiographic image database). This yields an exigent demand for developing highly effective and computationally efficient retrieval system.
Methods
We propose a novel interactive two-stage CBMIR system for diverse collection of medical radiographic images. Initially, Pulse Coupled Neural Network based shape features are used to find out the most probable (similar) image classes using a novel “similarity positional score” mechanism. This is followed by retrieval using Non-subsampled Contourlet Transform based texture features considering only the images of the pre-identified classes. Maximal information compression index is used for unsupervised feature selection to achieve better results. To reduce the semantic gap problem, the proposed system uses a novel fuzzy index based relevance feedback mechanism by incorporating subjectivity of human perception in an analytic manner.
Results
Extensive experiments were carried out to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed CBMIR system on a subset of Image Retrieval in Medical Applications (IRMA)-2009 database consisting of 10,902 labeled radiographic images of 57 different modalities. We obtained overall average precision of around 98% after only 2–3 iterations of relevance feedback mechanism. We assessed the results by comparisons with some of the state-of-the-art CBMIR systems for radiographic images.
Conclusions
Unlike most of the existing CBMIR systems, in the proposed two-stage hierarchical framework, main importance is given on constructing efficient and compact feature vector representation, search-space reduction and handling the “semantic gap” problem effectively, without compromising the retrieval performance. Experimental results and comparisons show that the proposed system performs efficiently in the radiographic medical image retrieval field.
Keywords: Content based medical image retrieval; Pulse couple neural network; Multiscale geometric analysis; Relevance feedback; Fuzzy logic; Radiographic images

Yanyan Xu, Jiaying Gong, Lizhi Xiong, Zhengquan Xu, Jinwei Wang, Yun-qing Shi, A privacy-preserving content-based image retrieval method in cloud environment, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 43, February 2017, Pages 164-172, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2017.01.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S104732031730007X)
Abstract: Abstract
In order to protect data privacy, image with sensitive or private information needs to be encrypted before being outsourced to a cloud service provider. However, this causes difficulties in image retrieval and data management. A privacy-preserving content-based image retrieval method based on orthogonal decomposition is proposed in the paper. The image is divided into two different components, for which encryption and feature extraction are executed separately. As a result, cloud server can extract features from an encrypted image directly and compare them with the features of the queried images, so that users can thus obtain the image. Different from other methods, the proposed method has no special requirements to encryption algorithms, which makes it more universal and can be applied in different scenarios. Experimental results prove that the proposed method can achieve better security and better retrieval performance.
Keywords: Privacy-preserving; Image retrieval; Secure search; Orthogonal decomposition

Donghee Yoo, Hybrid query processing for personalized information retrieval on the Semantic Web, Knowledge-Based Systems, Volume 27, March 2012, Pages 211-218, ISSN 0950-7051, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2011.10.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705111002243)
Abstract: This paper suggests a hybrid query processing method for the effective retrieval of personalized information on the Semantic Web. When individual requirements change, the current method of query processing requires additional reasoning for knowledge to support personalization. To minimize this problem, the hybrid query processing method uses both the query rewriting method and the reasoning method. This paper distinguishes knowledge that is frequently changed from knowledge that is not. The query rewriting method is used for frequently changed knowledge; otherwise the reasoning approach is used. The query rewriting method refers to individual requirements to extend user queries instead of conducting inference. To illustrate the advantage of this method, a Personalized Hotel Search System (PerHSS) was implemented, consisting of hotel domain ontology, question-based and answer-based requirements collector, and a personalized hotel search interface using available Semantic Web technologies. This paper reports the results of the performance of a set of query tests and compares the results to those of similar works. The results show that the suggested method is suitable for the efficient retrieval of personal information.
Keywords: Personalized information retrieval; Semantic Web; Ontology; Reasoning; SPARQL

Oleksandr Kolomiyets, Marie-Francine Moens, A survey on question answering technology from an information retrieval perspective, Information Sciences, Volume 181, Issue 24, 15 December 2011, Pages 5412-5434, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2011.07.047.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025511003860)
Abstract: This article provides a comprehensive and comparative overview of question answering technology. It presents the question answering task from an information retrieval perspective and emphasises the importance of retrieval models, i.e., representations of queries and information documents, and retrieval functions which are used for estimating the relevance between a query and an answer candidate. The survey suggests a general question answering architecture that steadily increases the complexity of the representation level of questions and information objects. On the one hand, natural language queries are reduced to keyword-based searches, on the other hand, knowledge bases are queried with structured or logical queries obtained from the natural language questions, and answers are obtained through reasoning. We discuss different levels of processing yielding bag-of-words-based and more complex representations integrating part-of-speech tags, classification of the expected answer type, semantic roles, discourse analysis, translation into a SQL-like language and logical representations.
Keywords: Question answering; Information retrieval; Natural language interfaces; Retrieval and ranking models

Hsien-Tang Lin, Nai-Wen Chi, Shang-Hsien Hsieh, A concept-based information retrieval approach for engineering domain-specific technical documents, Advanced Engineering Informatics, Volume 26, Issue 2, April 2012, Pages 349-360, ISSN 1474-0346, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2011.12.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474034611001133)
Abstract: Technical documents, which often have complicated structures, are often produced during Architecture/Engineering/Construction (A/E/C) projects and research. Applying information retrieval (IR) techniques directly to long or multi-topic documents often does not lead to satisfactory results. One way to address the problem is to partition each document into several “passages”, and treat each passage as an independent document. In this research, a novel passage partitioning approach is designed. It generates passages according to domain knowledge, which is represented by base domain ontology. Such a passage is herein defined as an OntoPassage. In order to demonstrate the advantage of the OntoPassage partitioning approach, this research implements a concept-based IR system to illustrate the application of such an approach. The research also compares the OntoPassage partitioning approach with several conventional passage partitioning approaches to verify its IR effectiveness. It is shown that, with the proposed OntoPassage approach, IR effectiveness on domain-specific technical reports is as good as conventional passage partitioning approaches. In addition, the OntoPassage approach provides the possibility to display the concepts in each passage, and concept-based IR may thus be implemented.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Passage retrieval; Ontology; Reference collection; Knowledge management

Célia da Costa Pereira, Mauro Dragoni, Gabriella Pasi, Multidimensional relevance: Prioritized aggregation in a personalized Information Retrieval setting, Information Processing & Management, Volume 48, Issue 2, March 2012, Pages 340-357, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2011.07.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457311000719)
Abstract: A new model for aggregating multiple criteria evaluations for relevance assessment is proposed. An Information Retrieval context is considered, where relevance is modeled as a multidimensional property of documents. The usefulness and effectiveness of such a model are demonstrated by means of a case study on personalized Information Retrieval with multi-criteria relevance. The following criteria are considered to estimate document relevance: aboutness, coverage, appropriateness, and reliability.

The originality of this approach lies in the aggregation of the considered criteria in a prioritized way, by considering the existence of a prioritization relationship over the criteria. Such a prioritization is modeled by making the weights associated to a criterion dependent upon the satisfaction of the higher-priority criteria. This way, it is possible to take into account the fact that the weight of a less important criterion should be proportional to the satisfaction degree of the more important criterion.

Experimental evaluations are also reported.
Keywords: Information Retrieval; Multidimensional assessment; Relevance ranking

Shengli Wu, Linear combination of component results in information retrieval, Data & Knowledge Engineering, Volume 71, Issue 1, January 2012, Pages 114-126, ISSN 0169-023X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2011.08.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X11001236)
Abstract: In information retrieval, data fusion (also known as meta-search) has been investigated by many researchers. Previous investigation and experimentation demonstrate that the linear combination method is an effective data fusion method for combining multiple information retrieval results. One advantage is its flexibility, since different weights can be assigned to different component systems so as to obtain better fusion results. The key issue is how to assign good weights to all the component retrieval systems involved. Surprisingly, research in this field is limited and it is still an open question. In this paper, we use the multiple linear regression technique with estimated relevance scores and judged scores to obtain suitable weights. Although the multiple linear regression technique is not new, the way of using it in this paper has never been attempted before for the data fusion problem in information retrieval. Our experiments with five groups of runs submitted to TREC show that the linear combination method with such a weighting strategy steadily outperforms the best component system and other data fusion methods including CombSum, CombMNZ, PosFuse, MAPFuse, SegFuse, and the linear combination method with performance level/performance square weighting schemes by large margins.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Data fusion; Meta-search; The linear combination method; Multiple linear regression; Logistic regression; Model

Nicole Lang Beebe, Jan Guynes Clark, Glenn B. Dietrich, Myung S. Ko, Daijin Ko, Post-retrieval search hit clustering to improve information retrieval effectiveness: Two digital forensics case studies, Decision Support Systems, Volume 51, Issue 4, November 2011, Pages 732-744, ISSN 0167-9236, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2011.01.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923611000388)
Abstract: This research extends text mining and information retrieval research to the digital forensic text string search process. Specifically, we used a self-organizing neural network (a Kohonen Self-Organizing Map) to conceptually cluster search hits retrieved during a real-world digital forensic investigation. We measured information retrieval effectiveness (e.g., precision, recall, and overhead) of the new approach and compared them against the current approach. The empirical results indicate that the clustering process significantly reduces information retrieval overhead of the digital forensic text string search process, which is currently a very burdensome endeavor.
Keywords: Digital forensics; Clustering; Information retrieval; Self-organizing map; Text string search

Cencheng Shen, Yun Li, Yan Sheng, Luan Luan, Collaborative Information Retrieval Framework Based on FCA, Physics Procedia, Volume 24, Part C, 2012, Pages 1935-1942, ISSN 1875-3892, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phpro.2012.02.285.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1875389212003288)
Abstract: In Collaborative Information Retrieval, for multiple sub-text databases, sub-lattices are constructed with the incremental update algorithms. Then, similarity measuring is used to match the formal concepts, use merging to obtain new concepts after finding provisional concept sets. Similarity matching is used to the new concepts to get the final result set. The framework can work under a distributed environment and an an imprecise way is used when matching the query words, which considered the convenience of users.
Keywords: FCA; collaborative; information retrieval

Miroslav Bursa, Lenka Lhotska, Vaclav Chudacek, Jiri Spilka, Petr Janku, Lukas Hruban, Information retrieval from hospital information system: Increasing effectivity using swarm intelligence, Journal of Applied Logic, Volume 13, Issue 2, Part A, June 2015, Pages 126-137, ISSN 1570-8683, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jal.2014.11.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1570868314000809)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper details the process of mining information from a hospital information system that has been designed approximately 15 years ago. The information is distributed within database tables in large textual attributes with a free structure. Information retrieval from these information is necessary for complementing cardiotocography signals with additional information that is to be implemented in a decision support system.

The basic statistical overview (n-gram analysis) helped with the insight into data structure, however more sophisticated methods have to be used as human (and expert) processing of the whole data were out of consideration: over 620,000 text fields contained text reports in natural language with (many) typographical errors, duplicates, ambiguities, syntax errors and many (nonstandard) abbreviations.

There was a strong need to efficiently determine the overall structure of the database and discover information that is important from the clinical point of view. We have used three different methods: k-means, self-organizing map and a self-organizing approach inspired by ant-colonies that performed clustering of the records. The records were visualized and revealed the most prominent information structure(s) that were consulted with medical experts and served for further mining from the database.

The outcome of this task is a set of ordered or nominal attributes with a structural information that is available for rule discovery mining and automated processing for the research of asphyxia prediction during delivery. The proposed methodology has significantly reduced the processing time of loosely structured textual records for both IT and medical experts.
Keywords: Swarm intelligence; Ant colony; Textual data mining; Medical record processing; Hospital information system

Sarvnaz Karimi, Justin Zobel, Falk Scholer, Quantifying the impact of concept recognition on biomedical information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 48, Issue 1, January 2012, Pages 94-106, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2011.02.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457311000276)
Abstract: In ad hoc querying of document collections, current approaches to ranking primarily rely on identifying the documents that contain the query terms. Methods such as query expansion, based on thesaural information or automatic feedback, are used to add further terms, and can yield significant though usually small gains in effectiveness. Another approach to adding terms, which we investigate in this paper, is to use natural language technology to annotate – and thus disambiguate – key terms by the concept they represent. Using biomedical research documents, we quantify the potential benefits of tagging users’ targeted concepts in queries and documents in domain-specific information retrieval. Our experiments, based on the TREC Genomics track data, both on passage and full-text retrieval, found no evidence that automatic concept recognition in general is of significant value for this task. Moreover, the issues raised by these results suggest that it is difficult for such disambiguation to be effective.
Keywords: Biomedical information retrieval; Keywords search; Named-entity recognition

Kehua Guo, Ruifang Zhang, Li Kuang, TMR: Towards an efficient semantic-based heterogeneous transportation media big data retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 181, 12 March 2016, Pages 122-131, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.06.101.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215018445)
Abstract: Abstract
In media retrieval system for intelligent transportation, media data variety and heterogeneity have been one of the most critical features. Documents with different formats may express similar semantic information, thus, searching documents reflecting users׳ intention has been a crucial and important task. For solving this problem, this paper proposes a novel semantic-based heterogeneous transportation media retrieval (TMR) approach to improve the performance. TMR supports the function of retrieving various media types such as image, video, audio and text by using a single media type. Firstly, semantic fields are extracted from the user annotating and automatic learning to express the users׳ intention. Secondly, ontology is used to represent the semantic fields of a media, and the ontology represented semantic information is saved together with the media document data. Thirdly, the semantic field adjustment process is described. Finally, fuzzy matching is employed to measure the similarity between the users׳ intention and media documents. For the returned results, we carry out the performance evaluation models in comparison with the existing approaches. Experimental result indicates the superiority of TMR in term of precision rate, computing speed, storage cost and user experience.
Keywords: Heterogeneous media retrieval; Ontology; Fuzzy matching; Information retrieval; Big data; Intelligent transportation

Noam Koenigstein, Yuval Shavitt, Ela Weinsberg, Udi Weinsberg, Measuring the validity of peer-to-peer data for information retrieval applications, Computer Networks, Volume 56, Issue 3, 23 February 2012, Pages 1092-1102, ISSN 1389-1286, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2011.10.026.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128611004038)
Abstract: Peer-to-peer (p2p) networks are being increasingly adopted as an invaluable resource for various information retrieval (IR) applications, including similarity estimation, content recommendation and trend prediction. However, these networks are usually extremely large and noisy, which raises doubts regarding the ability to actually extract sufficiently accurate information.

This paper quantifies the measurement effort required to obtain and optimize the information obtained from p2p networks for the purpose of IR applications. We identify and measure inherent difficulties in collecting p2p data, namely, partial crawling, user-generated noise, sparseness, and popularity and localization of content and search queries. These aspects are quantified using music files shared in the Gnutella p2p network. We show that the power-law nature of the network makes it relatively easy to capture an accurate view of the popular content using relatively little effort. However, some applications, like trend prediction, mandate collection of the data from the “long tail”, hence a much more exhaustive crawl is needed. Furthermore, we show that content and search queries are highly localized, indicating that location-crossing conclusions require a wide spread spatial crawl. Finally, we present techniques for overcoming noise originating from user generated content and for filtering non-informative data, while minimizing information loss.
Keywords: Peer-to-peer; Information retrieval; Measurement

Leiquan Wang, Weichen Sun, Zhicheng Zhao, Fei Su, Modeling intra- and inter-pair correlation via heterogeneous high-order preserving for cross-modal retrieval, Signal Processing, Volume 131, February 2017, Pages 249-260, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2016.08.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168416301980)
Abstract: Abstract
Cross modal (e.g., text-to-image or image-to-text) retrieval has received great attention with the flushed multi-modal social media data. It is of considerable challenge to stride across the heterogeneous gap between modalities. Existing methods project different modalities into a common space by minimizing the distance within the heterogeneous pairs (intra-pair) of the new latent space. However, the relationship among these multi-modal pairs (inter-pair) are neglected, which are beneficial to eliminate the heterogeneity. In this paper, we propose a novel algorithm based on canonical correlation analysis by considering the high-order relationship among pairs (HCCA) for cross-modal retrieval. Supervised with additional semantic labels and unsupervised without semantic labels are simultaneously considered by treating the intra- and inter-pair correlation discriminatively. Moreover, kernel tricks are also performed on HCCA to learn a non-linear projection, termed HKCCA. Extensive experiments conducted on three public datasets demonstrate the superiority of the proposed methods compared with the state-of-the-art approaches in cross modal retrieval.
Keywords: Cross-modal retrieval; Heterogeneous high-order preserving; Correlation learning; Kernel

Ruben Fernandez-Beltran, Filiberto Pla, Latent topics-based relevance feedback for video retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Volume 51, March 2016, Pages 72-84, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2015.09.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320315003386)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a novel Content-Based Video Retrieval approach in order to cope with the semantic gap challenge by means of latent topics. Firstly, a supervised topic model is proposed to transform the classical retrieval approach into a class discovery problem. Subsequently, a new probabilistic ranking function is deduced from that model to tackle the semantic gap between low-level features and high-level concepts. Finally, a short-term relevance feedback scheme is defined where queries can be initialised with samples from inside or outside the database. Several retrieval simulations have been carried out using three databases and seven different ranking functions to test the performance of the presented approach. Experiments revealed that the proposed ranking function is able to provide a competitive advantage within the content-based retrieval field.
Keywords: Content-Based Video Retrieval; Relevance feedback; Latent topics; Probabilistic Latent Semantic Analysis (pLSA); Information retrieval

Karl-Heinz T. Bäuml, Alp Aslan, Magdalena Abel, Chapter Five - The Two Faces of Selective Memory Retrieval—Cognitive, Developmental, and Social Processes, In: Brian H. Ross, Editor(s), Psychology of Learning and Motivation, Academic Press, 2017, Volume 66, Pages 167-209, ISSN 0079-7421, ISBN 9780128121184, https://doi.org/10.1016/bs.plm.2016.11.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0079742116300196)
Abstract: Abstract
Numerous studies from the past five decades have shown that selective retrieval of some studied items can impair recall of other items. This chapter reviews more recent work, in which it is demonstrated that selective memory retrieval has two faces and that it can both impair and improve recall of other items. In this recent work, participants' access to study context during selective retrieval was experimentally manipulated and it was examined whether such manipulation influences the effects of selective retrieval. Access to study context was manipulated using listwise directed forgetting, context-dependent forgetting and time-dependent forgetting. The results consistently showed that selective retrieval impairs recall of other memories if access to study context during retrieval is largely maintained, but that selective retrieval can improve recall if study context access is impaired. The findings are explained by a two-factor account, which claims that, in general, selective retrieval does not only trigger inhibition and blocking but also triggers context reactivation processes. The proposal is that primarily inhibition and blocking operate when study context access during selective retrieval is largely maintained, whereas primarily context reactivation processes operate when study context access is impaired. Current findings on the two faces of selective retrieval are well consistent with this theoretical view.
Keywords: Blocking; Context reactivation; Episodic memory; Inhibition; Memory development; Retrieval-induced facilitation; Retrieval-induced forgetting; Social recall

Xianye Li, Xiangfeng Meng, Yongkai Yin, Xiulun Yang, Yurong Wang, Xiang Peng, Wenqi He, Xuemei Pan, Guoyan Dong, Hongyi Chen, Hierarchical multilevel authentication system for multiple-image based on phase retrieval and basic vector operations, Optics and Lasers in Engineering, Volume 89, February 2017, Pages 59-71, ISSN 0143-8166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optlaseng.2016.04.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0143816616300665)
Abstract: Abstract
A hierarchical multilevel authentication system for multiple-image based on phase retrieval and basic vector operations in the Fresnel domain is proposed, by which more certification images are iteratively encoded into multiple cascaded phase masks according to different hierarchical levels. Based on the secret sharing algorithm by basic vector decomposition and composition operations, the iterated phase distributions are split into n pairs of shadow images keys (SIKs), and then distributed to n different participants (the authenticators). During each level in the high authentication process, any 2 or more participants can be gathered to reconstruct the original meaningful certification images. While in the case of each level in the low authentication process, only one authenticator who possesses a correct pair of SIKs, will gain no significant information of certification image; however, it can result in a remarkable peak output in the nonlinear correlation coefficient of the recovered image and the standard certification image, which can successfully provide an additional authentication layer for the high-level authentication. Theoretical analysis and numerical simulations both verify the feasibility of the proposed method.
Keywords: Image authentication; Phase retrieval; Secret sharing; Vector decomposition and composition

Aliya Batur, Gulzira Tursun, Mutellip Mamut, Nurbiya Yadikar, Kurban Ubul, Uyghur Printed Document Image Retrieval Based on SIFT Features, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 107, 2017, Pages 737-742, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2017.03.157.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050917304325)
Abstract: Abstract
Image retrieval is an attractive topic in the field of information retrieval in electronic library and computer vision. This paper proposed a research in the field of Uyghur document image retrieval that using 128-dimensional SIFT features for Uyghur printed document images. Through the Euclidean distance ratio with different threshold to statistics the number of right and wrong matched points of SIFT feature key points to achieve the local feature based document image retrieval for 1000 Uyghur printed document images. Through experiment acquired around 995 right matched points of each Uyghur printed document image, where the total key points are 1418 and the 100% matching percentage, respectively. The experimental results indicate that the 128-dimension SIFT based image retrieval method is a kind of effective method for Uyghur document image.
Keywords: Document image; Retrieval; SIFT feature; Distance ratio match

Gonzalo P. Urcelay and Ralph R. Miller, Retrieval From Memory☆, In Reference Module in Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Psychology, Elsevier, 2017, ISBN 9780128093245, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-809324-5.21004-3.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128093245210043)
Abstract: Abstract
Historically, most approaches to understanding learning and memory phenomena, particularly at the neurobiological level, have emphasized information processing that occurs during or soon after training (i.e., acquisition) as critical for observing learned changes in behavior. However, this view has been challenged by studies showing that at least part of the changes observed in behavior are due to constraints at the time of information retrieval. In this chapter, we first analyze behavioral evidence suggesting that retrieval processes, in addition to acquisition processes and storage mechanisms, are critical for observed changes in behavior due to past experience. Then we discuss theoretical approaches that emphasize retrieval processes to explain learning and memory.
Keywords: Amnesia; Conditioning; Consolidation; Cue competition; Extinction; Interference; Memory; Reconsolidation; Retrieval; State-dependent learning; Theories of learning

Amir Marzban, Fatemeh Azimi Amoli, The Effect of Mnemonic Strategies Instruction on the Immediate and Delayed Information Retrieval of Vocabulary Learning in EFL Elementary Learners, Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, Volume 46, 2012, Pages 4957-4961, ISSN 1877-0428, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2012.06.367.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042812021039)
Abstract: The present study was carried out to investigate whether mnemonic strategies instruction affect the immediate and delayed information retrieval of vocabulary learning in EFL elementary learners or not. The participants were 70 male and female freshmen from Aviation University in Tehran. A pretest of vocabulary was administered at this stage to ensure that the new words were unfamiliar. The participants were then dichotomized into an experimental and a control group each comprising 35 students. The students in the experimental group were instructed to use the two vocabulary mnemonic strategies of visualization and pictures, whereas the participants in the control group did not have any strategies. A multiple choice post-test of vocabulary was administered after the treatment and after two weeks. The results of the post-test 1 and post-test 2 data analysis confirmed the superiority of the experimental group to the control group, resulting in the rejection of the null hypotheses.
Keywords: Mnemonic Strategies; Time Interval; Information Retrieval; Vocabulary Leaning

Wei Song, Bing Wang, Qian Wang, Zhiyong Peng, Wenjing Lou, Yihui Cui, A privacy-preserved full-text retrieval algorithm over encrypted data for cloud storage applications, Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing, Volume 99, January 2017, Pages 14-27, ISSN 0743-7315, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpdc.2016.05.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0743731516300533)
Abstract: Abstract
As Cloud Computing becomes prevalent, more and more sensitive information has been outsourced into cloud. A straightforward methodology that can protect data privacy is to encrypt the data before outsourcing. Recently, many searchable encryption schemes have been proposed to allow users to execute keyword-based search over encrypted data. However, it is different for users to exactly find all the interested files from the huge amounts of data by relying solely on keyword-based search. In information retrieval domain, full-text retrieval is an efficient information retrieval technology that allows efficient searches over massive amount of web data. Unfortunately, when applied in the cloud paradigm, full-text retrieval over encrypted cloud data have not been well studied. The full-text retrieval service requires extracting all the words in the contents of documents. The huge scale of index words cannot be efficiently supported by the existing searchable encryption schemes. Moreover, to protect user’s privacy, a privacy-preserved full-text retrieval index is required. These problems make efficient full-text retrieval over a large amount of encrypted cloud data a very challenging task. In this paper, we first establish a set of strict privacy requirements for full-text retrieval in cloud storage systems. To address the challenging problem, we design a Bloom filter based tree index. Our scheme fine-tunes the similarity between the query and encrypted documents by proposing the membership entropies of index words. Our scheme is provably secure through our security analysis. We demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed scheme through extensive experimental evaluation. The experimental results manifest the search operation can be done in 60 milliseconds using an off-the-shelf moderate PC.
Keywords: Cloud computing; Privacy-preserved full-text retrieval; Hierarchical Bloom filter tree index; Membership entropy

Hua Chen, Antoine Trouve, Kazuaki J Murakami, Akira Fukuda, An intelligent annotation-based image retrieval system based on RDF descriptions, Computers & Electrical Engineering, Volume 58, February 2017, Pages 537-550, ISSN 0045-7906, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2016.09.031.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S004579061630413X)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we aim at improving text-based image search using Semantic Web technologies. We introduce our notions of concept and instance in order to better express the semantics of images, and present an intelligent annotation-based image retrieval system. We test our approach on the Flickr8k dataset. From the provided captions, we generate annotations at three levels (sentence, concept and instance). These annotations are stored as RDF triples and can be queried to find images. The experimental results show that using concepts and instances to annotate images flexibly can improve the intelligence of the image retrieval system: (1) with annotations at concept level, it enables to create semantic links between concepts and then addresses many challenges, such as the problems of synonyms and homonyms; (2) with annotations at instance level, it can count things (e.g., “two people”, “three animals”) or identify a same concept.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Image annotation; Semantic image retrieval; RDF

Cristian Moral, Angelica De Antonio, Xavier Ferre, A visual UML-based conceptual model of information-seeking by computer science researchers, Information Processing & Management, Volume 53, Issue 4, July 2017, Pages 963-988, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2016.10.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030645731630560X)
Abstract: Abstract
The information-seeking process carried out by researchers is complex and full of different variables. We have represented this complexity for computer science researchers in the form of a conceptual model. The model is presented in a visual form using the UML modeling language, since it allows conveying all the complexity present in such a process with greater clarity. It has been obtained after carrying out two qualitative studies —a focus group and semi-structured interviews— with computer science researchers. The proposed overall model is composed of 4 sub-models: of the documents used in the process, of the tasks undertaken, of the user, and of the information-seeking process context. The conceptual model proposed can serve for the purpose of better understanding the information-seeking process, for example for librarians or for software designers wanting to provide a support to such task. It can also be useful as a framework to characterize different software solutions aimed to information-seeking in research activities, and to compare them.
Keywords: Information-seeking process; Visual conceptual model; Information retrieval; Human-computer interaction; Qualitative study analysis; UML

Chengjian Tu, Shichen Shen, Quanhu Sheng, Yu Shyr, Jun Qu, A peptide-retrieval strategy enables significant improvement of quantitative performance without compromising confidence of identification, Journal of Proteomics, Volume 152, 30 January 2017, Pages 276-282, ISSN 1874-3919, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jprot.2016.11.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1874391916305000)
Abstract: Abstract
Reliable quantification of low-abundance proteins in complex proteomes is challenging largely owing to the limited number of spectra/peptides identified. In this study we developed a straightforward method to improve the quantitative accuracy and precision of proteins by strategically retrieving the less confident peptides that were previously filtered out using the standard target-decoy search strategy. The filtered-out MS/MS spectra matched to confidently-identified proteins were recovered, and the peptide-spectrum-match FDR were re-calculated and controlled at a confident level of FDR ≤ 1%, while protein FDR maintained at ~ 1%. We evaluated the performance of this strategy in both spectral count- and ion current-based methods. &gt; 60% increase of total quantified spectra/peptides was respectively achieved for analyzing a spike-in sample set and a public dataset from CPTAC. Incorporating the peptide retrieval strategy significantly improved the quantitative accuracy and precision, especially for low-abundance proteins (e.g. one-hit proteins). Moreover, the capacity of confidently discovering significantly-altered proteins was also enhanced substantially, as demonstrated with two spike-in datasets. In summary, improved quantitative performance was achieved by this peptide recovery strategy without compromising confidence of protein identification, which can be readily implemented in a broad range of quantitative proteomics techniques including label-free or labeling approaches.
Significance
We hypothesize that more quantifiable spectra and peptides in a protein, even including less confident peptides, could help reduce variations and improve protein quantification. Hence the peptide retrieval strategy was developed and evaluated in two spike-in sample sets with different LC-MS/MS variations using both MS1- and MS2-based quantitative approach. The list of confidently identified proteins using the standard target-decoy search strategy was fixed and more spectra/peptides with less confidence matched to confident proteins were retrieved. However, the total peptide-spectrum-match false discovery rate (PSM FDR) after retrieval analysis was still controlled at a confident level of FDR ≤ 1%. As expected, the penalty for occasionally incorporating incorrect peptide identifications is negligible by comparison with the improvements in quantitative performance. More quantifiable peptides, lower missing value rate, better quantitative accuracy and precision were significantly achieved for the same protein identifications by this simple strategy. This strategy is theoretically applicable for any quantitative approaches in proteomics and thereby provides more quantitative information, especially on low-abundance proteins.
Keywords: MS1-based quantification; Peptide-retrieval strategy; Spectral counting

Wenliang Zhu, Elia Marin, Nobuhiko Sugano, Giuseppe Pezzotti, Tensor-resolved Raman spectroscopic analysis of wear-induced residual stress fields in long-term alumina hip-joint retrievals, Journal of the Mechanical Behavior of Biomedical Materials, Volume 66, February 2017, Pages 201-210, ISSN 1751-6161, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmbbm.2016.11.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1751616116303915)
Abstract: Abstract
Polarized Raman spectroscopy was applied to evaluate the full set of stress tensor components in the wear-induced residual stress fields on two long-term (&gt;20 y) (monolithic) alumina (Al2O3) femoral head retrievals coupled to polyethylene liners. The tensor-resolved residual stress state stored onto the Al2O3 ceramic head surface was found to retain “memory” of the sliding conditions in vivo and of the wear-induced consumption of the polyethylene counterpart. The evolution of tensor-resolved residual stress motifs in the three-dimensional space was examined, and key features, including exceptionally high shear stresses in one case, were uncovered. The effect of such a body of concurrent complications and malfunctioning are neither easily reproducible by in vitro simulations nor obviously obtainable through merely computational approaches. It is demonstrated here that our latest developments of Raman spectroscopic algorithms could contribute to link the joint performance with the micromechanical features that occur in real in vivo situations.
Keywords: Raman spectroscopy; alumina femoral head; residual stress; long term retrievals

Minh-Tien Nguyen, Minh-Le Nguyen, Intra-relation or inter-relation?: Exploiting social information for Web document summarization, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 76, 15 June 2017, Pages 71-84, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2017.01.023.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417417300325)
Abstract: Abstract
Traditional summarization methods only use the internal information of a Web document while ignoring its social information such as tweets from Twitter, which can provide a perspective viewpoint for readers towards an event. This paper proposes a framework named SoRTESum to take the advantages of social information such as document content reflection to extract summary sentences and social messages. In order to do that, the summarization was formulated in two steps: scoring and ranking. In the scoring step, the score of a sentence or social message is computed by using intra-relation and inter-relation which integrate the support of local and social information in a mutual reinforcement form. To calculate these relations, 16 features are proposed. After scoring, the summarization is generated by selecting top m ranked sentences and social messages. SoRTESum was extensively evaluated on two datasets. Promising results show that: (i) SoRTESum obtains significant improvements of ROUGE-scores over state-of-the-art baselines and competitive results with the learning to rank approach trained by RankBoost and (ii) combining intra-relation and inter-relation benefits single-document summarization.
Keywords: Data mining; Information retrieval; Document summarization; Social context summarization; RTE; Ranking; Unsupervised learning

Mina S. Makary, Summit H. Shah, Shantanu Warhadpande, Ivan G. Vargas, James Sarbinoff, Joshua D. Dowell, Design-of-Experiments Approach to Improving Inferior Vena Cava Filter Retrieval Rates, Journal of the American College of Radiology, Volume 14, Issue 1, January 2017, Pages 72-77, ISSN 1546-1440, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jacr.2016.08.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S154614401630758X)
Abstract: AbstractPurpose
The association of retrievable inferior vena cava filters (IVCFs) with adverse events has led to increased interest in prompt retrieval, particularly in younger patients given the progressive nature of these complications over time. This study takes a design-of-experiments (DOE) approach to investigate methods to best improve filter retrieval rates, with a particular focus on younger (&lt;60 years) patients.
Methods
A DOE approach was executed in which combinations of variables were tested to best improve retrieval rates. The impact of a virtual IVCF clinic, primary care physician (PCP) letters, and discharge instructions was investigated. The decision for filter retrieval in group 1 was determined solely by the referring physician. Group 2 included those patients prospectively followed in an IVCF virtual clinic in which filter retrieval was coordinated by the interventional radiologist when clinically appropriate. In group 3, in addition to being followed through the IVCF clinic, each patient’s PCP was faxed a follow-up letter, and information regarding IVCF retrieval was added to the patient’s discharge instructions.
Results
A total of 10 IVCFs (8.4%) were retrieved among 119 retrievable IVCFs placed in group 1. Implementation of the IVCF clinic in group 2 significantly improved the retrieval rate to 25.3% (23 of 91 retrievable IVCFs placed, P &lt; .05). The addition of discharge instructions and PCP letters to the virtual clinic (group 3) resulted in a retrieval rate of 33.3% (17 of 51). The retrieval rates demonstrated more pronounced improvement when examining only younger patients, with retrieval rates of 11.3% (7 of 62), 29.5% (13 of 44, P &lt; .05), and 45.2% (14 of 31) for groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively.
Conclusions
DOE methodology is not routinely executed in health care, but it is an effective approach to evaluating clinical practice behavior and patient quality measures. In this study, implementation of the combination of a virtual clinic, PCP letters, and discharge instructions improved retrieval rates compared with a virtual clinic alone. Quality improvement strategies such as these that augment patient and referring physician knowledge on interventional radiologic procedures may ultimately improve patient safety and personalized care.
Key Words: Inferior vena cava filters; filter retrieval; clinic; quality improvement

Henry L. Roediger III, Eylul Tekin and Oyku Uner, Encoding–Retrieval Interactions, In Reference Module in Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Psychology, Elsevier, 2017, ISBN 9780128093245, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-809324-5.21036-5.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128093245210365)
Abstract: Abstract
The encoding–retrieval paradigm is instantiated when two (or more) conditions are manipulated during study (or encoding) and two or more types of tests are used to assess retention (retrieval tests). This type of experiment permits answers to two fundamental questions: Do effects of an encoding manipulation that occur on one test generalize across other tests? When encoding and retrieval conditions match on some dimension, does better performance occur than when they mismatch (in line with principles of encoding specificity and transfer-appropriate processing)? The encoding–retrieval paradigm is essential to progress in understanding memory.
Keywords: Context-dependent retrieval; Encoding–retrieval paradigm; Encoding specificity principle; Memory experiment; Mood-dependent retrieval; State-dependent retrieval

Fang Wang, Rachel A. Diana, Neural correlates of temporal context retrieval for abstract scrambled phrases: Reducing narrative and familiarity-based strategies, Brain Research, Volume 1655, 15 January 2017, Pages 128-137, ISSN 0006-8993, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2016.11.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899316307661)
Abstract: Abstract
Temporal context, memory for the timing of events, can be assessed using non-temporal strategies such as relative familiarity or inference from a semantic narrative. Neuroimaging studies, which have previously encouraged such strategies, find similar patterns of brain regions involved in both temporal and non-temporal context memory. The present study aims to investigate whether previous findings are driven by the use of non-temporal strategies or whether the same pattern of brain regions is identified when relative familiarity and semantic narrative strategies are discouraged. We used abstract phrases (e.g. alone me leave) created by scrambling familiar three-word phrases. The words in the phrases were less concrete than the object image stimuli used in previous studies of temporal context memory (Jenkins and Ranganath, 2010) and were presented quickly while participants read each word aloud. This differed from previous studies in which participants were encouraged to use narrative strategies during encoding (Tubridy and Davachi, 2011) and was designed to discourage use of narrative strategies. The relative familiarity of the words within each phrase was similar and likely not diagnostic of word order during encoding, in order to minimize the use of relative familiarity strategies. Neuroimaging results indicate that temporal context retrieval was associated with the hippocampus, parahippocampal cortex, ventromedial prefrontal cortex, and retrosplenial cortex, which are regions consistent with the retrieval of non-temporal context in episodic memory, suggesting that previous findings were not driven entirely by non-temporal strategies but rather that temporal memory relies on similar brain regions to non-temporal memory.
Keywords: Temporal context retrieval; Frontal cortex; Medial temporal lobe

Shouyu Wang, Keding Yan, Liang Xue, Quantitative interferometric microscopy with two dimensional Hilbert transform based phase retrieval method, Optics Communications, Volume 383, 15 January 2017, Pages 537-544, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2016.10.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401816308707)
Abstract: Abstract
In order to obtain high contrast images and detailed descriptions of label free samples, quantitative interferometric microscopy combining with phase retrieval is designed to obtain sample phase distributions from fringes. As accuracy and efficiency of recovered phases are affected by phase retrieval methods, thus approaches owning higher precision and faster processing speed are still in demand. Here, two dimensional Hilbert transform based phase retrieval method is adopted in cellular phase imaging, it not only reserves more sample specifics compared to classical fast Fourier transform based method, but also overcomes disadvantages of traditional algorithm according to Hilbert transform which is a one dimensional processing causing phase ambiguities. Both simulations and experiments are provided, proving the proposed phase retrieval approach can acquire quantitative sample phases with high accuracy and fast speed.
Keywords: Quantitative interferometric microscopy; Two dimensional Hilbert transform; Phase retrieval

Tugba Uzer, Norman R. Brown, The effect of cue content on retrieval from autobiographical memory, Acta Psychologica, Volume 172, January 2017, Pages 84-91, ISSN 0001-6918, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actpsy.2016.11.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0001691816303699)
Abstract: Abstract
It has long been argued that personal memories are usually generated in an effortful search process in word-cueing studies. However, recent research (Uzer, Lee, &amp; Brown, 2012) shows that direct retrieval of autobiographical memories, in response to word cues, is common. This invites the question of whether direct retrieval phenomenon is generalizable beyond the standard laboratory paradigm. Here we investigated prevalence of direct retrieval of autobiographical memories cued by specific and individuated cues versus generic cues. In Experiment 1, participants retrieved memories in response to cues from their own life (e.g., the names of friends) and generic words (e.g., chair). In Experiment 2, participants provided their personal cues two or three months prior to coming to the lab (min: 75 days; max: 100 days). In each experiment, RT was measured and participants reported whether memories were directly retrieved or generated on each trial. Results showed that personal cues elicited a high rate of direct retrieval. Personal cues were more likely to elicit direct retrieval than generic word cues, and as a consequence, participants responded faster, on average, to the former than to the latter. These results challenge the constructive view of autobiographical memory and suggest that autobiographical memories consist of pre-stored event representations, which are largely governed by associative mechanisms. These demonstrations offer theoretically interesting questions such as why are we not overwhelmed with directly retrieved memories cued by everyday familiar surroundings?
Keywords: Autobiographical memory; Direct retrieval; Retrieval processes

Jianbai Yang, Jian Zhao, Qiang Sun, 3D Model Retrieval using Constructive-Learning for Cross-Model Correlation, Neurocomputing, Available online 14 January 2017, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2017.01.030.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217300747)
Abstract: Abstract
With the advance of 3D technology and digital image processing technique, there have been a great number of applications of 3D models, such as virtual reality, computed aided design, and entertainment. Under such circumstance, much research attention has been spent on 3D model retrieval in recent decades. Although extensive research efforts have been dedicated to this task, it is a difficult task to explore the correlation among 3D models, which is the key issue in 3D model retrieval. In this paper, we design and implement a constructive-learning for cross-model correlation algorithm for 3D model retrieval. In this method, we first extract view features from multi-views of 3D models. To exploit the cross-model correlation, we formulate the correlation of 3D models in a hypergraph structure, where both the vertex correlation and the edge correlation are simultaneously learned in a constructive-learning process. Then, the correlation of each model to the query can be used for retrieval. To justify the performance of our proposed algorithm, we have implemented the method and tested on two datasets. We have compared it with recent state-of-the-art methods, and the results have shown superior performance of our proposed method.
Keywords: 3D model retrieval; Cross-model correlation; Constructive-learning

Ya-nan Qiao, Qi Yong, Hou Di, Tensor Field Model for higher-order information retrieval, Journal of Systems and Software, Volume 84, Issue 12, December 2011, Pages 2303-2313, ISSN 0164-1212, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2011.06.057.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121211001622)
Abstract: There is an implied assumption for keywords in the traditional Information Retrieval (IR) models: keywords are parallel to each other. In fact, there are some relations between terms in quite a few queries, and in these queries, perhaps one term is subordinate to another term according to the inner meanings of information needs. This is “Higher-order IR”(HIR) defined in this paper, and we call traditional IR “first-order IR” instead. Some research fields such as Public Opinion Analysis, Chain of Events Analysis and Trend Analysis which reflect the vague concept of HIR are all special form of HIR. Apparently, traditional IR models cannot deal with HIR directly. We need a new HIR model to represent and organize the documents, queries and relevance relationship between them. In this paper, we propose “Tensor Field Model” (TFM), and its perspectives are field theory in physics and multilinear algebra in maths. We construct the tensor representations of documents and queries in TFM, presenting some key concepts such as term field, tensor product of term array and term field constant. Empirical results show that TFM is appropriate for HIR theoretically and formally compared with traditional models which simplify the HIR problems as first-order IR problems to some extent.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Text representation; Text mining

Miriam Fernández, Iván Cantador, Vanesa López, David Vallet, Pablo Castells, Enrico Motta, Semantically enhanced Information Retrieval: An ontology-based approach, Web Semantics: Science, Services and Agents on the World Wide Web, Volume 9, Issue 4, December 2011, Pages 434-452, ISSN 1570-8268, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.websem.2010.11.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1570826810000910)
Abstract: Currently, techniques for content description and query processing in Information Retrieval (IR) are based on keywords, and therefore provide limited capabilities to capture the conceptualizations associated with user needs and contents. Aiming to solve the limitations of keyword-based models, the idea of conceptual search, understood as searching by meanings rather than literal strings, has been the focus of a wide body of research in the IR field. More recently, it has been used as a prototypical scenario (or even envisioned as a potential “killer app”) in the Semantic Web (SW) vision, since its emergence in the late nineties. However, current approaches to semantic search developed in the SW area have not yet taken full advantage of the acquired knowledge, accumulated experience, and technological sophistication achieved through several decades of work in the IR field. Starting from this position, this work investigates the definition of an ontology-based IR model, oriented to the exploitation of domain Knowledge Bases to support semantic search capabilities in large document repositories, stressing on the one hand the use of fully fledged ontologies in the semantic-based perspective, and on the other hand the consideration of unstructured content as the target search space. The major contribution of this work is an innovative, comprehensive semantic search model, which extends the classic IR model, addresses the challenges of the massive and heterogeneous Web environment, and integrates the benefits of both keyword and semantic-based search. Additional contributions include: an innovative rank fusion technique that minimizes the undesired effects of knowledge sparseness on the yet juvenile SW, and the creation of a large-scale evaluation benchmark, based on TREC IR evaluation standards, which allows a rigorous comparison between IR and SW approaches. Conducted experiments show that our semantic search model obtained comparable and better performance results (in terms of MAP and P@10 values) than the best TREC automatic system.
Keywords: Semantic Web; Information Retrieval; Semantic search

Israel Alonso, David Contreras, Evaluation of semantic similarity metrics applied to the automatic retrieval of medical documents: An UMLS approach, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 44, February 2016, Pages 386-399, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2015.09.028.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417415006569)
Abstract: Abstract
One promise of current information retrieval systems is the capability to identify risk groups for certain diseases and pathologies based on the automatic analysis of vast amounts of Electronic Medical Records repositories. However, the complexity and the degree of specialization of the language used by the experts in this context, make this task both challenging and complex. In this work, we introduce a novel experimental study to evaluate the performance of the two semantic similarity metrics (Path and Intrinsic IC-Path, both widely accepted in the literature) in a real-life information retrieval situation. In order to achieve this goal and due to the lack of methodologies for this context in the literature, we propose a straightforward information retrieval system for the biomedical field based on the UMLS Metathesaurus and on semantic similarity metrics. In contrast with previous studies which focus on testbeds with limited and controlled sets of concepts, we use a large amount of information (101,712 medical documents extracted from TREC Medical Records Track 2011). Our results show that in real-life cases, both metrics display similar performance, Path (F-Measure = 0.430) e Intrinsic IC-Path (F-Measure = 0.427). Thereby we suggest that the use of Intrinsic IC-Path is not justified in real scenarios.
Keywords: Semantic similarity; Information retrieval; Electronic Health Record; UMLS

Souleymen Sahnoun, El-Hadi Djermoune, David Brie, Pierre Comon, A simultaneous sparse approximation method for multidimensional harmonic retrieval, Signal Processing, Volume 131, February 2017, Pages 36-48, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2016.07.029.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168416301803)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, a new method for the estimation of the parameters of multidimensional (R-D) harmonic and damped complex signals in noise is presented. The problem is formulated as R simultaneous sparse approximations of multiple 1-D signals. To get a method able to handle large size signals while maintaining a sufficient resolution, a multigrid dictionary refinement technique is associated to the simultaneous sparse approximation. The refinement procedure is proved to converge in the single R-D mode case. Then, for the general multiple modes case, the signal tensor model is decomposed in order to handle each mode separately in an iterative scheme. The proposed method does not require an association step since the estimated modes are automatically “paired”. We also derive the Cramér–Rao lower bounds of the parameters of modal R-D signals. The expressions are given in compact form in the single tone case. Finally, numerical simulations are conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Keywords: Multidimensional harmonic retrieval; Frequency estimation; Simultaneous sparse approximation; Multigrid dictionary refinement; Cramér–Rao lower bound

Hailong Liu, Baoan Li, Xueqiang Lv, Yue Huang, Image Retrieval Using Fused Deep Convolutional Features, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 107, 2017, Pages 749-754, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2017.03.159.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050917304349)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper proposes an image retrieval using fused deep convolutional features to solve the semantic gap between low-level features and high-level semantic features of traditional contend-based image retrieval method. Firstly, the improved network architecture LeNet-L is obtained by improving convolutional neural network LeNet-5. Then, fusing two different deep convolutional features which are extracted by LeNet-5 and AlexNet. Finally, after the fusion, the similar image is obtained through comparing the similarity between the image being retrieved and the image in database by distance function. In Corel dataset, this method is compared with the single convolutional neural network extracted features for image retrieval method, it has a higher precision and recall. The results show that this method has a better retrieval accuracy.
Keywords: Deep learning; Convolutional neural network; Feature extraction; Image retrieval; Feature fusion

Manoj Kumar Sharma, Tanveer J. Siddiqui, An Ontology Based Framework for Retrieval of Museum Artifacts, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 84, 2016, Pages 169-176, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.04.083.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916300989)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper proposes ontology based conceptual framework for storage and retrieval of Digitized Museum Artifacts. The proposed framework uses ontology structure for automatic image annotation. It supports semantic retrieval by combining ontological concepts, visual and textual features automatically extracted from images and their textual descriptions. The Ontology-driven analysis module automatically generates annotation for domain objects. This paper also reports a new dataset designed for its evaluation. The dataset consists of images displayed in various galleries of Allahabad museum along with their textual description. We have collected 1200 images and extracted their visual and textual features for the purpose of retrieval.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Image analysis; Image annotation; Ontology; Information retrieval; Knowledge based system; Knowledge sharing; knowledge discovery

Zheng Ye, Jimmy Xiangji Huang, Hongfei Lin, Incorporating rich features to boost information retrieval performance: A SVM-regression based re-ranking approach, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 38, Issue 6, June 2011, Pages 7569-7574, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2010.12.108.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417410014715)
Abstract: Document ranking is an essential problem in the field of information retrieval (IR). Traditional weighting models such as BM25 and Language model can only take advantage of query terms. IR is a complex process that may be affected by a series of heterogeneous features. It is necessary to refine first-pass retrieval results by taking rich features into account. Traditional heuristic re-ranking approaches can only take advantage of a small number of homogeneous features that may affect information retrieval performance. In this paper, we propose and evaluate a regression-based document re-ranking approach for IR, in which we use SVM regression model to learn a re-ranking function automatically. Under this regression-based framework, we can take advantage of rich features to re-rank the firs-pass retrieved documents by traditional weighting models. We conduct a series of experiments on four standard IR collections in two different languages. The experimental results show that our proposed approach can significantly improve the retrieval performance over the first-pass retrieval. Moreover, by refining the first-pass retrieved document set, the traditional pseudo relevant feedback approaches can also be enhanced.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Query expansion; Regression model; Re-ranking model

Azzah Al-Maskari, Mark Sanderson, The effect of user characteristics on search effectiveness in information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 47, Issue 5, September 2011, Pages 719-729, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2011.03.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030645731100029X)
Abstract: This paper investigates the influence of user characteristics (e.g. search experience and cognitive skills) on user effectiveness. A user study was conducted to investigate this effect, 56 participants completed searches for 56 topics using the TREC test collection. Results indicated that participants with search experience and high cognitive skills were more effective than those with less experience and slower perceptual abilities. However, all users rated themselves with the same level of satisfaction with the search results despite the fact they varied substantially in their effectiveness. Therefore, information retrieval evaluators should take these factors into consideration when investigating the impact of system effectiveness on user effectiveness.
Keywords: Information retrieval; User characteristics; Search effectiveness

Zhentian Wang, Zhifeng Huang, Zhiqiang Chen, Li Zhang, Xiaolei Jiang, Kejun Kang, Hongxia Yin, Zhenchang Wang, Marco Stampanoni, Low-dose multiple-information retrieval algorithm for X-ray grating-based imaging, Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research Section A: Accelerators, Spectrometers, Detectors and Associated Equipment, Volume 635, Issue 1, 11 April 2011, Pages 103-107, ISSN 0168-9002, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nima.2011.01.079.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168900211001574)
Abstract: The present work proposes a low dose information retrieval algorithm for X-ray grating-based multiple-information imaging (GB-MII) method, which can retrieve the attenuation, refraction and scattering information of samples by only three images. This algorithm aims at reducing the exposure time and the doses delivered to the sample. The multiple-information retrieval problem in GB-MII is solved by transforming a nonlinear equations set to a linear equations and adopting the nature of the trigonometric functions. The proposed algorithm is validated by experiments both on conventional X-ray source and synchrotron X-ray source, and compared with the traditional multiple-image-based retrieval algorithm. The experimental results show that our algorithm is comparable with the traditional retrieval algorithm and especially suitable for high Signal-to-Noise system.
Keywords: X-ray phase contrast imaging; Multiple-information retrieval; Grating-based

Antonio Ferrández, Lexical and Syntactic knowledge for Information Retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 47, Issue 5, September 2011, Pages 692-705, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2011.01.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457311000045)
Abstract: Traditional Information Retrieval (IR) models assume that the index terms of queries and documents are statistically independent of each other, which is intuitively wrong. This paper proposes the incorporation of the lexical and syntactic knowledge generated by a POS-tagger and a syntactic Chunker into traditional IR similarity measures for including this dependency information between terms. Our proposal is based on theories of discourse structure by means of the segmentation of documents and queries into sentences and entities. Therefore, we measure dependencies between entities instead of between terms. Moreover, we handle discourse references for each entity. It has been evaluated on Spanish and English corpora as well as on Question Answering tasks obtaining significant increases.
Keywords: Information Retrieval; Natural Language Processing; Term Proximity; Question Answering; Lexical and syntactic relationships

Amie N. Doidge, Lisa H. Evans, Jane E. Herron, Edward L. Wilding, Separating content-specific retrieval from post-retrieval processing, Cortex, Volume 86, January 2017, Pages 1-10, ISSN 0010-9452, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cortex.2016.10.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010945216302738)
Abstract: Abstract
According to cortical reinstatement accounts, neural processes engaged at the time of encoding are re-engaged at the time of memory retrieval. The temporal precision of event-related potentials (ERPs) has been exploited to assess this possibility, and in this study ERPs were acquired while people made memory judgments to visually presented words encoded in two different ways. There were reliable differences between the scalp distributions of the signatures of successful retrieval of different contents from 300 to 1100 ms after stimulus presentation. Moreover, the scalp distributions of these content-sensitive effects changed during this period. These findings are, to our knowledge, the first demonstration in one study that ERPs reflect content-specific processing in two separable ways: first, via reinstatement, and second, via downstream processes that operate on recovered information in the service of memory judgments.
Keywords: Context reinstatement; Episodic memory; Content-specific retrieval; Recollection

Panpan Wang, Yuexian Hou, Jingfei Li, Yazhou Zhang, Dawei Song, Wenjie Li, A quasi-current representation for information needs inspired by Two-State Vector Formalism, Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, Available online 28 April 2017, ISSN 0378-4371, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2017.04.145.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437117304557)
Abstract: Abstract
Recently, a number of quantum theory (QT)-based information retrieval (IR) models have been proposed for modeling session search task that users issue queries continuously in order to describe their evolving information needs (IN). However, the standard formalism of QT cannot provide a complete description for users’ current IN in a sense that it does not take the ‘future’ information into consideration. Therefore, to seek a more proper and complete representation for users’ IN, we construct a representation of quasi-current IN inspired by an emerging Two-State Vector Formalism (TSVF). With the enlightenment of the completeness of TSVF, a “two-state vector” derived from the ‘future’ (the current query) and the ‘history’ (the previous query) is employed to describe users’ quasi-current IN in a more complete way. Extensive experiments are conducted on the session tracks of TREC 2013 &amp; 2014, and show that our model outperforms a series of compared IR models.
Keywords: Information Retrieval; Two-State Vector Formalism; Quantum theory; Session search

Antonio Faonio, Jesper Buus Nielsen, Daniele Venturi, Fully leakage-resilient signatures revisited: Graceful degradation, noisy leakage, and construction in the bounded-retrieval model, Theoretical Computer Science, Volume 660, 17 January 2017, Pages 23-56, ISSN 0304-3975, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tcs.2016.11.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304397516306119)
Abstract: Abstract
We construct new leakage-resilient signature schemes. Our schemes remain unforgeable against an adversary leaking arbitrary (yet bounded) information on the entire state of the signer (sometimes known as fully leakage resilience), including the random coin tosses of the signing algorithm.

The main feature of our constructions is that they offer a graceful degradation of security in situations where standard existential unforgeability is impossible. This property was recently put forward by Nielsen, Venturi, and Zottarel (PKC 2014) [19] to deal with settings in which the secret key is much larger than the size of a signature. One remarkable such case is the so-called Bounded-Retrieval Model (BRM), where one intentionally inflates the size of the secret key while keeping constant the signature size and the computational complexity of the scheme.

Our main constructions have leakage rate 1 − o ( 1 ) , and are proven secure in the standard model. We additionally give a construction in the BRM, relying on a random oracle. All of our schemes are described in terms of generic building blocks, but also admit efficient instantiations under fairly standard number-theoretic assumptions. Finally, we explain how to extend some of our schemes to the setting of noisy leakage, where the only restriction on the leakage functions is that the output does not decrease the min-entropy of the secret key by too much.
Keywords: Signature scheme; Leakage resilience; Noisy leakage; Bounded retrieval model

Xiangming Mu, Hohyon Ryu, Kun Lu, Supporting effective health and biomedical information retrieval and navigation: A novel facet view interface evaluation, Journal of Biomedical Informatics, Volume 44, Issue 4, August 2011, Pages 576-586, ISSN 1532-0464, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2011.01.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046411000104)
Abstract: There is a need to provide a more effective user interface to facilitate non-domain experts’ health information seeking in authoritative online databases such as MEDLINE. We developed a new topic cluster based information navigation system called SimMed. Instead of offering a list of documents, SimMed presents users with a list of ranked clusters. Topically similar documents are grouped together to provide users with a better overview of the search results and to support exploration of similar literature within a cluster. We conducted an empirical user study to compare SimMed to a traditional document list based search interface. A total of 42 study participants were recruited to use both interfaces for health information exploration search tasks. The results showed that SimMed is more effective in terms of users’ perceived topic knowledge changes and their engagement in user-system interactions. We also developed a new metric to assess users’ efforts to find relevant citations. On average, users need significantly fewer clicks to find relevant information in SimMed than in the baseline system. Comments from study participants indicated that SimMed is more helpful in finding similar citations, providing related medical terms, and presenting better organized search results, particularly when the initial search is unsatisfactory. Findings from the study shed light on future health and biomedical information retrieval system and interface designs.
Keywords: Exploratory searching; Biomedical information retrieval systems; Cluster and facet view; Search interface evaluation

Anoop Verma, M.K. Tiwari, Nishikant Mishra, Minimizing time risk in on-line bidding: An adaptive information retrieval based approach, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 38, Issue 4, April 2011, Pages 3679-3689, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2010.09.025.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417410009711)
Abstract: Knowledge is of prime importance, particularly for the individuals who are involved in e-business. A lot of energy and time is wasted by the individuals in seeking required knowledge and information. In order to facilitate the individuals with required information, an efficient technique for the proper retrieval of knowledge is must. Almost all online business activities, particularly e-auction based firms are surrounded by various risk factors pertaining to time, security, brand etc. The main focus of the present paper is to analyze all such risk factors and further to categorize the same as per their degree of influence. A nominal group technique (NGT) based approach has been utilized to do the same that ranks the risk factors using agreed criteria based approach. Further, the paper proposed an adaptive information retrieval to resolve the problems related to time risk in online bidding process, while other risk factors has been tried to resolved by using corporate memory based data warehousing. Efficient knowledge retrieval along with the knowledge development and knowledge management became a backbreaking task for any organization. A corporate memory based approach has been utilized to represent the required knowledge stored in memory warehouse for its current and future usage. In underlying retrieval model, adaptiveness is achieved using genetic algorithm based matching function adaptation, where, a total of five matching functions viz. Jaccard’s coefficient, Overlap’s coefficient, Dice coefficient, Inclusion measure, and Cosine measures have been considered to determine the retrieval effectiveness. Later, effectiveness of information retrieval system is calculated in terms of well known parameters namely precision, recall, fallout and miss. Results of adaptive information retrieval using a weighted combination of matching functions are compared with individual matching functions.
Keywords: e-Bidding risks; Corporate memory; Information retrieval; Genetic algorithm; Nominal group technique

Ding Yanqing, Yao Guoqing, Zhao Yanjie, Remote Sensing Image Content Retrieval Based on Frequency Spectral Energy, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 107, 2017, Pages 448-453, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2017.03.088.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050917303630)
Abstract: Abstract
There are different research and processing methods for Image Content Retrieval. This article is described the retrieval of remote sensing images method, which is based on the image texture features of the Fourier power spectrum. Firstly, a fixed size remote sensing image unit is selected from the remote sensing image, which is converted to a spectral image by FFT, and extract the eigenvalues in the frequency domain to constitute a searchable image eigenvalue database. Secondly, the similarity between the feature and the database features are examined by the Angular Cosine Algorithm. Lastly, similarity of the resulting image are sorted to select the best match. This method converts the remote sensing image into a spectral image, and makes the selection of the eigenvalue more simple. The Angle Cosine similarity detection method with weight is used to make the similarity detection more accurate.
Keywords: Remote Sensing Image; Frequency Domain Features; Similarity Matching; Image Retrieval

Prashant Srivastava, Ashish Khare, Integration of wavelet transform, Local Binary Patterns and moments for content-based image retrieval, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 42, January 2017, Pages 78-103, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2016.11.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320316302371)
Abstract: Abstract
The proliferation of large number of images has made it necessary to develop systems for indexing and organizing images for easy access. This has made Content-Based Image Retrieval (CBIR) an important area of research in Computer Vision. This paper proposes a combination of features in multiresolution analysis framework for image retrieval. In this work, the concept of multiresolution analysis has been exploited through the use of wavelet transform. This paper combines Local Binary Pattern (LBP) with Legendre Moments at multiple resolutions of wavelet decomposition of image. First, LBP codes of Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) coefficients of images are computed to extract texture feature from image. The Legendre Moments of these LBP codes are then computed to extract shape feature from texture feature for constructing feature vectors. These feature vectors are used to search and retrieve visually similar images from large database. The proposed method has been tested on five benchmark datasets, namely, Corel-1K, Olivia-2688, Corel-5K, Corel-10K, and GHIM-10K, and performance of the proposed method has been measured in terms of precision and recall. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms some of the other state-of-the-art methods in terms of precision and recall.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Discrete wavelet transform; Local Binary Pattern; Legendre moments

Davar Giveki, Mohammad Ali Soltanshahi, Gholam Ali Montazer, A new image feature descriptor for content based image retrieval using scale invariant feature transform and local derivative pattern, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 131, February 2017, Pages 242-254, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2016.11.046.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402616313766)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a new methodology to retrieve images of different scenes by introducing a novel image descriptor. The proposed descriptor works with Scale Invariant Feature Transform (SIFT), Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG), Local Binary Patterns (LBP), Local Derivative Pattern (LDP), Local Ternary Pattern (LTP) and any other feature descriptor that can be applied on the image pixels. As the proposed descriptor considers a group of pixels together, higher level of semantic is achieved. In this work, a new image descriptor using SIFT and LDP is introduced that is able to find similarities and matches between images. The proposed descriptor produces highly discriminative features for describing image content. Four image datasets are used for evaluating our proposed descriptor. Comprehensive experiments have been conducted using various classifiers and different image features to show the superiority of the proposed method.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval; SIFT; HOG; LBP; LTP; LDT

Ben Leshem, Oren Raz, Ariel Jaffe, Boaz Nadler, The discrete sign problem: Uniqueness, recovery algorithms and phase retrieval applications, Applied and Computational Harmonic Analysis, Available online 3 January 2017, ISSN 1063-5203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acha.2016.12.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1063520316300987)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper we consider the following real-valued and finite dimensional specific instance of the 1-D classical phase retrieval problem. Let F ∈ R N be an N-dimensional vector, whose discrete Fourier transform has a compact support. The sign problem is to recover F from its magnitude | F | . First, in contrast to the classical 1-D phase problem which in general has multiple solutions, we prove that with sufficient over-sampling, the sign problem admits a unique solution. Next, we show that the sign problem can be viewed as a special case of a more general piecewise constant phase problem. Relying on this result, we derive a computationally efficient and robust to noise sign recovery algorithm. In the noise-free case and with a sufficiently high sampling rate, our algorithm is guaranteed to recover the true sign pattern. Finally, we present two phase retrieval applications of the sign problem: (i) vectorial phase retrieval with three measurement vectors; and (ii) recovery of two well separated 1-D objects.
Keywords: Phase retrieval; Signal reconstruction; Compact support; Sampling theory

Nobuharu Nakajima, Masayuki Yoshino, Experimental demonstration of scanning phase retrieval by a noniterative method with a Gaussian-amplitude beam, Optics Communications, Volume 382, 1 January 2017, Pages 428-436, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2016.08.033.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401816307179)
Abstract: Abstract
We present a proof-of-principle experiment of an analytic (noniterative) phase-retrieval method for coherent imaging systems under scanning illumination of a probe beam. This method allows to reconstruct the amplitude and phase distribution of a semi-transparent object over a wide area from intensities measured at three points in the Fourier plane of the object under scanning illumination of a known Gaussian-amplitude beam in the object plane. The present measurement system is very simple in contrast to ones of interferometric techniques, and also the speed of the calculation of phase retrieval in this method is faster than that in iterative algorithms since this method is based on an analytic solution to the phase retrieval. The effectiveness of this method is shown in experimental examples of the object reconstructions of a converging lens and a plastic plate for scratch standards.
Keywords: Phase retrieval; Scanning systems; Coherent imaging

Alexandru Nechifor, Mihaela Albu, Richard Hair, Vladimir Terzija, A flexible platform for synchronized measurements, data aggregation and information retrieval, Electric Power Systems Research, Volume 120, March 2015, Pages 20-31, ISSN 0378-7796, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2014.11.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378779614004076)
Abstract: Abstract
Synchronized measurements enable a number of applications, which shape most of the features of the smart grid paradigm. Phasor measurements units (PMUs) have an increasing role in power system state estimation, detection of inter-area and other low frequency oscillations, parameter identification, power system control and protection. Although standardization is in place for both information retrieval and data communication, there is a need to further optimize the way measurements obtained from sources with different reporting rates are exploited, by designing a platform flexible enough to simultaneously run in real time most of these PMU-based applications. In this paper such a platform is presented. It encompasses multiple PMUs from different vendors, manages detailed information about the measurement chain and its associated uncertainties and exploits a unique communication infrastructure with OpenPDC as the underlying layer for data fusion. It is based on a powerful Java EE7 application that extends OpenPDC and represents the environment for extracting, managing and processing the information. The Java EE7 application has been developed aiming for security, scalability, portability, concurrent access and big data processing. Such goals could have not been achieved without making some of the latest enterprise technologies work together. The end result can be exploited as a highly capable and interactive processing node within the grid and it also hints at important features that can be included in the upcoming IEEE C37.247 Standard for Phasor Data Concentrators for Power Systems.
Keywords: Communication infrastructure; Data aggregation; HTML5 visualization; Java EE7; OpenPDC; Synchronized measurements

D. Gross, F. Krahmer, R. Kueng, Improved recovery guarantees for phase retrieval from coded diffraction patterns, Applied and Computational Harmonic Analysis, Volume 42, Issue 1, January 2017, Pages 37-64, ISSN 1063-5203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acha.2015.05.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1063520315000986)
Abstract: Abstract
In this work we analyze the problem of phase retrieval from Fourier measurements with random diffraction patterns. To this end, we consider the recently introduced PhaseLift algorithm, which expresses the problem in the language of convex optimization. We provide recovery guarantees which require O ( log 2 ⁡ d ) different diffraction patterns, thus improving on recent results by Candès et al. [1], which demand O ( log 4 ⁡ d ) different patterns.
Keywords: Compressed sensing; Low rank matrix recovery; Phase retrieval; PhaseLift; Masked Fourier measurements; Coded diffraction patterns; Golfing scheme

J.M. Banda, R.A. Angryk, Regional content-based image retrieval for solar images: Traditional versus modern methods, Astronomy and Computing, Volume 13, November 2015, Pages 108-116, ISSN 2213-1337, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ascom.2015.09.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213133715000931)
Abstract: Abstract
This work presents an extensive evaluation between conventional (distance-based) and modern (search-engine) information retrieval techniques in the context of finding similar Solar image regions within the Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO) mission image repository. We compare pre-computed image descriptors (image features) extracted from the SDO mission images in two very different ways: (1) similarity retrieval using multiple distance-based metrics and (2) retrieval using Lucene, a general purpose scalable retrieval engine. By transforming image descriptors into histogram-like signatures and into Lucene-compatible text strings, we are able to effectively evaluate the retrieval capabilities of both methodologies. Using the image descriptors alongside a labeled image dataset, we present an extensive evaluation under the criteria of performance, scalability and retrieval precision of experimental retrieval systems in order to determine which implementation would be ideal for a production level system. In our analysis we performed key transformations to our sample datasets to properly evaluate rotation invariance and scalability. At the end of this work we conclude which technique is the most robust and would yield the best performing system after an extensive experimental evaluation, we also point out the strengths and weaknesses of each approach and theorize on potential improvements.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Solar image analysis; Computer vision; Information retrieval; Content-based image retrieval; Large-scale retrieval; Big-data analysis

Alessio Malizia, Kai A. Olsen, Tommaso Turchi, Pierluigi Crescenzi, An ant-colony based approach for real-time implicit collaborative information seeking, Information Processing & Management, Volume 53, Issue 3, May 2017, Pages 608-623, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2016.12.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457316307269)
Abstract: Abstract
We propose an approach based on Swarm Intelligence — more specifically on Ant Colony Optimization (ACO) — to improve search engines’ performance and reduce information overload by exploiting collective users’ behavior. We designed and developed three different algorithms that employ an ACO-inspired strategy to provide implicit collaborative-seeking features in real time to search engines. The three different algorithms — NaïveRank, RandomRank, and SessionRank — leverage on different principles of ACO in order to exploit users’ interactions and provide them with more relevant results. We designed an evaluation experiment employing two widely used standard datasets of query-click logs issued to two major Web search engines. The results demonstrated how each algorithm is suitable to be employed in ranking results of different types of queries depending on users’ intent.
Keywords: Ant Colony Optimization; Cooperative systems; Evolutionary computation; Information filtering; Information retrieval; Recommender systems; World wide web

Yung-Cheng Ma, Chung-Ping Chung, Tien-Fu Chen, Load and storage balanced posting file partitioning for parallel information retrieval, Journal of Systems and Software, Volume 84, Issue 5, May 2011, Pages 864-884, ISSN 0164-1212, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2011.01.028.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121211000203)
Abstract: Many recent major search engines on Internet use a large-scale cluster to store a large database and cope with high query arrival rate. To design a large scale parallel information retrieval system, both performance and storage cost has to be taken into integrated consideration. Moreover, a quantitative method to design the cluster in systematical way is required. This paper proposes posting file partitioning algorithm for these requirements. The partitioning follows the partition-by-document-ID principle to eliminate communication overhead. The kernel of the partitioning is a data allocation algorithm to allocate variable-sized data items for both load and storage balancing. The data allocation algorithm is proven to satisfy a load balancing constraint with asymptotical 1-optimal storage cost. A probability model is established such that query processing throughput can be calculated from keyword popularities and data allocation result. With these results, we show a quantitative method to design a cluster systematically. This research provides a systematical approach to large-scale information retrieval system design. This approach has the following features: (1) the differences to ideal load balancing and storage balancing are negligible in real-world application. (2) Both load balancing and storage balancing can be taken into integrated consideration without conflicting. (3) The data allocation algorithm is capable to deal with data items of variable-sizes and variable loads. An algorithm having all these features together is never achieved before and is the key factor for achieving load and storage balanced workstation cluster in a real-world environment.
Keywords: Load balancing; Storage balancing; Parallel information retrieval; Inverted file

Fasong Wang, Zhongyong Wang, Rui Li, Linrang Zhang, An efficient algorithm for harmonic retrieval by combining blind source separation with wavelet packet decomposition, Digital Signal Processing, Volume 46, November 2015, Pages 133-150, ISSN 1051-2004, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dsp.2015.07.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1051200415002481)
Abstract: Abstract
In the present paper, we propose an efficient framework and algorithm for one dimensional harmonic retrieval problem in additive colored Gaussian or non-Gaussian noise when the frequencies of the harmonic signals are closely spaced in frequency domain. Our framework utilizes the wavelet packet (WP) method to the blind source separation (BSS) based harmonic retrieval model. Firstly, we establish the BSS based harmonic retrieval model in additive noise using only one mixed channel signal, at the same time, the fundamental principle of BSS based harmonics retrieval algorithm is analyzed in detail. Then, the harmonic retrieval algorithm is developed mainly using the WP decomposition approach, where the criterion is formed as the cumulant based approximation of the mutual information (MI) for the selection of optimal sub-bands of WP decomposition with the least-dependent components between the same nodes. Simulation results show that the proposed algorithm is able to retrieve the harmonic source signals and yield good performance.
Keywords: Blind source separation (BSS); Harmonic retrieval; Wavelet packet (WP); Mutual information (MI)

Mihaela Mitici, Jasper Goseling, Maurits de Graaf, Richard J. Boucherie, Data retrieval time for energy-harvesting wireless sensor networks, Ad Hoc Networks, Volume 53, 15 December 2016, Pages 32-40, ISSN 1570-8705, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adhoc.2016.09.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1570870516302104)
Abstract: Abstract
We consider an ad-hoc network of wireless sensors that harvest energy from the environment and broadcasts measurements independently, at random, provided sufficient energy is available. Clients arriving at the network are interested in retrieving measurements from an arbitrary set of sensors of some fixed size s. We show that the sensors broadcast measurements according to a phase-type distribution. We determine the probability distribution of the time needed for a client to retrieve s sensor measurements. We provide a closed-form expression for the retrieval time of s sensor measurements for an asymptotically large capacity of the sensor battery or the rate at which energy is harvested. We also analyze numerically the retrieval time of s sensor measurements under various assumptions regarding the battery capacity of the sensors, the energy harvesting and consumption processes. The results provide a lower bound for the energy storage capacity of the sensors for which the retrieval time of measurements is below a targeted level. It is also shown that the ratio between the energy harvesting rate and the broadcasting rate significantly influences the retrieval time of measurements, whereas deploying sensors with large batteries does not significantly reduce the retrieval time of measurements. Numerical experiments also indicate that our theoretical results generalize to non-identical energy harvesting rates, various amount of energy consumed upon a broadcast and non-exponential distributions of the energy harvesting and broadcasting processes.
Keywords: Wireless sensor networks; Energy harvesting; Data retrieval time; Phase-type distribution; Order statistics

Yingying Zhu, Jianmin Jiang, Wenlong Han, Ying Ding, Qi Tian, Interpretation of users’ feedback via swarmed particles for content-based image retrieval, Information Sciences, Volume 375, 1 January 2017, Pages 246-257, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2016.09.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025516307745)
Abstract: Abstract
While providing relevance feedback (RF) by users proves to be an effective method for content-based image retrieval, how to interpret and learn from the user-provided feedback, however, remains an unsolved problem. In this paper, we propose an integrated users-feedback and learning algorithm by screening individual elements of content features and driving a group of swarmed particles inside the feature space to provide a possible solution. In comparison with the existing approaches, the proposed algorithm achieves a number of advantages, which can be highlighted as: (i) interpretation of users’ feedback is independent of both the content features and relevance feedback schemes, and hence the proposed algorithm can be applicable to any content features and relevance feedback methods; (ii) the RF interpretation is followed by a group of swarmed particles, acting as multiple agents rather than a single query image in searching for the desirable images; (iii) the proposed RF interpretation and learning is exploited not only in reweighting the content similarity measurement, but also in regrouping the database images. Extensive experiments support that our proposed algorithm outperforms the existing representative techniques, providing good potential for further research and development for a wide range of content-based image retrieval applications.
Keywords: Relevance feedback; User interactions; Content-based image retrieval; Particle swarm optimization

Baocheng Huang, Guang Yu, Research and application of public opinion retrieval based on user behavior modeling, Neurocomputing, Volume 167, 1 November 2015, Pages 596-603, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.04.029.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215004762)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper designs a system of network public opinion analysis based on the specific way of “matching Topic with Opinion” which can organize public opinion data, avoid the redundant data and retain the original information structure of the opinion. And this article proposes a user model founded on the user access behavior to scientifically classify and represent the relevant theory of the users’ retrieval behavior, then to analyze and manage the retrieval results which can to provide the accurate and relevant search results of public opinion information for users.
Keywords: Public opinion analysis; Public opinion data organization; Information retrieval

Di Jiang, Kenneth Wai-Ting Leung, Lingxiao Yang, Wilfred Ng, TEII: Topic enhanced inverted index for top-k document retrieval, Knowledge-Based Systems, Volume 89, November 2015, Pages 346-358, ISSN 0950-7051, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2015.07.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705115002683)
Abstract: Abstract
In recent years, topic modeling is gaining significant momentum in information retrieval (IR). Researchers have found that utilizing the topic information generated through topic modeling together with traditional TF-IDF information generates superior results in document retrieval. However, in order to apply this idea to real-life IR systems, some critical problems need to be solved: how to store the topic information and how to utilize it with the TF-IDF information for efficient document retrieval. In this paper, we propose the Topic Enhanced Inverted Index (TEII) to incorporate the topic information into the inverted index for efficient top-k document retrieval. Specifically, we explore two different types of TEIIs. We first propose the incremental TEII, which includes the topic information into the traditional inverted index by adding topic-based inverted lists. The incremental TEII is beneficial for legacy IR systems, since it does not change the existing TF-IDF-based inverted lists. As a more flexible alternative, we propose the hybrid TEII to incorporate the topic information into each posting of the inverted index. In the hybrid TEII, two relaxation methods are proposed to support dynamic estimation of the upper bound impact of each posting. The hybrid TEII is highly extensible for incorporating different ranking factors and we show an extension of the hybrid TEII by considering the static quality of the documents in the corpus. Based on the incremental and hybrid TEIIs, we develop several query processing algorithms to support efficient top-k document retrieval on TEIIs. Empirical evaluation on the TREC dataset verifies the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed index structures and query processing algorithms.
Keywords: Topic model; Search engine; Information retrieval

Xiaoshi Yin, Jimmy Xiangji Huang, Zhoujun Li, Mining and modeling linkage information from citation context for improving biomedical literature retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 47, Issue 1, January 2011, Pages 53-67, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2010.03.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457310000300)
Abstract: Mining linkage information from the citation graph has been shown to be effective in identifying important literatures. However, the question of how to utilize linkage information from the citation graph to facilitate literature retrieval still remains largely unanswered. In this paper, given the context of biomedical literature retrieval, we first conduct a case study in order to find out whether applying PageRank and HITS algorithms directly to the citation graph is the best way of utilizing citation linkage information for improving biomedical literature retrieval. Second, we propose a probabilistic combination framework for integrating citation information into the content-based information retrieval weighting model. Based on the observations of the case study, we present two strategies for modeling the linkage information contained in the citation graph. The proposed framework provides a theoretical support for the combination of content and linkage information. Under this framework, exhaustive parameter tuning can be avoided. Extensive experiments on three TREC Genomics collections demonstrate the advantages and effectiveness of our proposed methods.
Keywords: Probabilistic model; Citation analysis; Ranking; Biomedical information retrieval

Zeng Zhiqiang, Shi Hua, Wu Yun, Quan Zou, Annotation-retrieval reinforcement by visual cognition modeling on manifold, Neurocomputing, Volume 215, 26 November 2016, Pages 150-159, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.07.162.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216306531)
Abstract: Abstract
While content-based image annotation and retrieval have been active research topics over the past decade, their correlation is not well exploited until recently. We argue that offline annotation and online retrieval models should be regarded as a unified long-term learner to reinforce each other. Based on this viewpoint, this paper presents an annotation-retrieval reinforcement framework, in which a dual-structured learning model is presented: the keyword-image association is learned by semantic manifold modeling while the semantic correlation between keywords is learned by Image-Word Net modeling. In keyword-image association modeling level, to effectively model keyword-image manifold, we present a manifold co-training algorithm to address the sample insufficiency problem. In manifold-based image annotation, we view annotation process as semantic feature reduction in keyword space, based on which a Biased Fisher Discriminant Analysis (BFDA) algorithm is presented for Eigen feature (keyword) selection. In semantic correlation modeling level, a novel Image-Word Net is learned from annotation training set and users' retrieval log for (1) irrelevant annotated keyword pruning; (2) semantic-level retrieval enhancement. In retrieval, our framework can effectively reveal user target by improving traditional content-based relevance feedback to linguistic-level interaction using annotation information, based on which BFDA is adopted for keyword selection. Finally, user interaction logs are adopted for manifold model updating and annotation refinement. As presented in our experiments, proposed method outperforms state-of-the-art annotation and retrieval algorithms in COREL Image databases with over 10,000 general-purpose images.
Keywords: Image annotation; Image retrieval; Semantic manifold; Co-training; Biased Fisher discriminant analysis

Linlu Mei, Vladimir Rozanov, Marco Vountas, John P. Burrows, Robert C. Levy, Wolfhardt Lotz, Retrieval of aerosol optical properties using MERIS observations: Algorithm and some first results, Remote Sensing of Environment, Available online 10 December 2016, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2016.11.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425716304606)
Abstract: Abstract
The MEdium Resolution Imaging Spectrometer (MERIS) instrument on board European Space Agency (ESA) Envisat made measurements from 2002 to 2012. Although MERIS was limited in spectral coverage, accurate Aerosol Optical Thickness (AOT) from MERIS data are retrieved by using appropriate additional information. We introduce a new AOT retrieval algorithm for MERIS over land surfaces, referred to as eXtensible Bremen AErosol Retrieval (XBAER). XBAER is similar to the “dark-target” (DT) retrieval algorithm used for Moderate-resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), in that it uses a lookup table (LUT) to match to satellite-observed reflectance and derive the AOT. Instead of a global parameterization of surface spectral reflectance, XBAER uses a set of spectral coefficients to prescribe surface properties. In this manner, XBAER is not limited to dark surfaces (vegetation) and retrieves AOT over bright surface (desert, semiarid, and urban areas). Preliminary validation of the MERIS-derived AOT and the ground-based Aerosol Robotic Network (AERONET) measurements yield good agreement, the resulting regression equation is y = (0.92x ± 0.07) + (0.05 ± 0.01) and Pearson correlation coefficient of R = 0.78. Global monthly means of AOT have been compared from XBAER, MODIS and other satellite-derived datasets.
Keywords: AOT; MERIS; Retrieval

Manuel Campos-Taberner, Francisco Javier García-Haro, Gustau Camps-Valls, Gonçal Grau-Muedra, Francesco Nutini, Alberto Crema, Mirco Boschetti, Multitemporal and multiresolution leaf area index retrieval for operational local rice crop monitoring, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 187, 15 December 2016, Pages 102-118, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2016.10.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425716303819)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents an operational chain for high-resolution leaf area index (LAI) retrieval from multiresolution satellite data specifically developed for Mediterranean rice areas. The proposed methodology is based on the inversion of the PROSAIL radiative transfer model through the state-of-the-art nonlinear Gaussian process regression (GPR) method. Landsat and SPOT5 data were used for multitemporal LAI retrievals at high-resolution. LAI estimates were validated using time series of in situ LAI measurements collected during the rice season in Spain and Italy. Ground LAI data were collected with smartphones using PocketLAI, a specific phone application for LAI estimation. Temporal evolution of the LAI estimates using Landsat and SPOT5 data followed consistently the temporal evolution of the in situ LAI measurements acquired on several Mediterranean rice varieties. The estimates had a root-mean-square-error (RMSE) of 0.39 and 0.51 m2/m2 in Spain and 0.38 and 0.47 m2/m2 in Italy for Landsat and SPOT5 respectively, with a strong correlation (R2 &gt; 0.92) for both cases. Spatial-temporal assessment of the estimated LAI from Landsat and SPOT5 data confirmed the robustness and consistency of the retrieval chain. This paper demonstrates the importance of an adequate characterization of the underlying rice background in order to address changes in background condition related to water management. Results highlight the potential of the proposed chain for deriving multitemporal near real-time decametric LAI maps fundamental for operational rice crop monitoring, and demonstrate the readiness of the proposed method for the processing of data such as the recently launched Sentinel-2.
Keywords: Crop monitoring; Rice; Leaf area index (LAI) retrieval; PROSAIL; Smartphone; Gaussian process regression (GPR); Landsat; SPOT5 Take5

G. Deep, L. Kaur, S. Gupta, Directional local ternary quantized extrema pattern: A new descriptor for biomedical image indexing and retrieval, Engineering Science and Technology, an International Journal, Volume 19, Issue 4, December 2016, Pages 1895-1909, ISSN 2215-0986, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jestch.2016.05.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S221509861630088X)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper proposes a new pattern descriptor called directional local ternary quantized extrema pattern (DLTerQEP) for biomedical image indexing and retrieval. The standard local binary patterns (LBPs) and local ternary patterns (LTPs) encode the gray scale relationship between the center pixel and its surrounding neighbors in two dimensional (2D) local region of an image whereas the proposed method encodes the spatial relation between any pair of neighbors in a local region along the given directions (i.e., 0°, 45°, 90° and 135°) for a given center pixel in an image. The novelty of the proposed method is it uses ternary patterns from horizontal–vertical–diagonal–antidiagonal (HVDA7) structure of directional local extrema values of an image to encode more spatial structure information which lead to better retrieval. DLTerQEP also provides a significant increase in discriminative power by allowing larger local pattern neighborhoods. The experiments have been carried out for proving the worth of proposed algorithm on three different types of benchmark biomedical databases; (i) computed tomography (CT) scanned lung image databases named as LIDC-IDRI-CT and VIA/I-ELCAP-CT, (ii) brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) database named as OASIS-MRI. The results demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method in terms of average retrieval precision (ARP) and average retrieval rate (ARR) over state-of-the-art feature extraction techniques like LBP, LTP and LQEP etc.
Keywords: Medical imaging; Image retrieval; Local binary patterns (LBPs); Local ternary patterns (LTPs); Directional quantized extrema patterns; Texture

Sudatta Chowdhury, Forbes Gibb, Monica Landoni, Uncertainty in information seeking and retrieval: A study in an academic environment, Information Processing & Management, Volume 47, Issue 2, March 2011, Pages 157-175, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2010.09.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457310000798)
Abstract: This research focuses specifically on uncertainty and information seeking in a digital environment. In this research we argue that different types of uncertainty are associated with the information seeking process and that, with the proliferation of new and different search tools, sources and channels, uncertainty, positive/desirable or negative/undesirable, continues to be a significant factor in the search process. Users may feel uncertain at any stage of the information search and retrieval process and uncertainty may remain even after completion of the process resulting in what may be called persistent uncertainty. An online questionnaire was used to collect data from users in the higher education sector. There were three parts to the questionnaire focusing on: information seeking activities, information seeking problems, and access to specific information channels or sources. Quantitative analysis was carried out on the data collected through the online questionnaire. A total of 668 responses were returned from the chosen user categories of academic staff, research staff and research students. This research has shown that there are some information seeking activities and information seeking problems that are the most common causes of uncertainty among significant number of users from different disciplines, age, gender, ICT skills, etc. This is also the case with respect to access to and use of specific information sources/channels, although the degrees of uncertainty in relation are relatively small. Possible implications of this study and further research issues are indicated.
Keywords: Uncertainty; Information seeking and retrieval; Information seeking activities; Information seeking problems; Digital information sources; Human information behaviour

Vassileios Stefanis, Athanasios Plessas, Andreas Komninos, John Garofalakis, Frequency and recency context for the management and retrieval of personal information on mobile devices, Pervasive and Mobile Computing, Volume 15, December 2014, Pages 100-112, ISSN 1574-1192, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pmcj.2013.08.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574119213001119)
Abstract: Abstract
As users store increasingly larger amounts of personal information on their mobiles, the task of retrieving such items (e.g., contacts) becomes more difficult. We show that users can be categorized by their communication patterns and that each category benefits differently from supporting contact management applications. By examining mobile user call logs, we show that it is possible to aid retrieval tasks using relatively simple heuristics and algorithms that describe usage context, using solely the dimensions of contact use frequency and recency. We compare and discuss the results of the proposed method applied on two different mobile datasets: a large dataset from NOKIA and a smaller dataset collected by ourselves.
Keywords: Context; Mobile personal information management; Call prediction

Haiyong Wu, Senlin Yan, Computing invariants of Tchebichef moments for shape based image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 215, 26 November 2016, Pages 110-117, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.05.147.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216306385)
Abstract: Abstract
Generally, discrete orthogonal moments are difficult to induce rotation invariants. Based on relationship between Tchebichef polynomials and power series, we propose a new algorithm to compute rotation invariants of Tchebichef moments. The translation and scale invariants of Tchebichef moments are achieved by pre-normalizing the image to a standard image. Selected invariants of Tchebichef moments form a new effective shape feature for image retrieval. The retrieval performance of the proposed descriptor is compared with radial Tchebichef moment invariants and two kinds of Zernike moment invariants. Retrieval experiment results show that the proposed shape feature is robust to deformations generated by image shape rotation and scaling.
Keywords: Tchebichef moments; Invariants of Tchebichef moments; Image retrieval; Pattern recognition

Esther de Ves, Guillermo Ayala, Xaro Benavent, Juan Domingo, Esther Dura, Modeling user preferences in content-based image retrieval: A novel attempt to bridge the semantic gap, Neurocomputing, Volume 168, 30 November 2015, Pages 829-845, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.05.041.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215007171)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper is concerned with content-based image retrieval from a stochastic point of view. The semantic gap problem is addressed in two ways. First, a dimensional reduction is applied using the (pre-calculated) distances among images. The dimension of the reduced vector is the number of preferences that we allow the user to choose from, in this case, three levels. Second, the conditional probability distribution of the random user preference, given this reduced feature vector, is modeled using a proportional odds model. A new model is fitted at each iteration. The score used to rank the image database is based on the estimated probability function of the random preference. Additionally, some memory is incorporated in the procedure by weighting the current and previous scores. Also, a novel evaluation procedure is proposed in this work based on the empirical commutative distribution functions of the relevant and non-relevant retrieved images. Good experimental results are achieved in very different experimental setups and tested in different databases.
Keywords: Semantic gap; Proportional odds model; Information retrieval; Relevance feedback; Content-based image retrieval

Jun Chen, Yong Wang, Linbo Luo, Jin-Gang Yu, Jiayi Ma, Image retrieval based on image-to-class similarity, Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 83, Part 3, 1 November 2016, Pages 379-387, ISSN 0167-8655, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2016.01.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167865516000295)
Abstract: Abstract
Similar image/shape retrieval has attractedincreasing interests in recent years. A typical strategy of existing retrieval algorithms is to rank the images according to the image-to-image similarities, e.g., the similarities between the query image and the images in the database. This strategy ignores the inherent information of the class that the query image belongs to (we call it query class). To address this issue, rather than using image-to-image similarity, we propose a simple yet effective retrieval method based on exploring the image-to-class similarity. The method uses an iterative framework, where the size of the query class is progressively enlarged according to the previous retrieval results, and the ranked list is generated according to the similarities between the images in the database and the query class. This framework enables us to explore the inherent information of the query class, and hence helps to improve the retrieval accuracy. Experimental results on various datasets demonstrate that our method is able to effectively improve the image and shape retrieval accuracy compared to state-of-the-art methods.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Shape retrieval; Matching; Image-to-class similarity

Xiaofei Zheng, Bing Tang, Zhe Gao, Enping Liu, Wei Luo, Study on image retrieval based on image texture and color statistical projection, Neurocomputing, Volume 215, 26 November 2016, Pages 217-224, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.07.157.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216306452)
Abstract: Abstract
This article presents an image texture and hue statistical projection based retrieval. First the image is converted to HSI color model, the gray value of the image extraction, and Robert algorithm to extract the texture, then the image is divided into blocks and extracts the main color block, the main color image blocks are respectively projected in the horizontal and vertical direction of 2, get 2 projection histogram, the 2 projection histograms of the first three order center extraction distance and Robert algorithm as the features of texture, image similarity calculation. Make a very full pave the way for future Canny edge processing algorithm research of image retrieval.
Keywords: Main hue; Robert algorithm; Projection histogram; Canny edge algorithm; Image retrieval

Daqing He, Dan Wu, Enhancing query translation with relevance feedback in translingual information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 47, Issue 1, January 2011, Pages 1-17, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2009.09.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457309001101)
Abstract: As an effective technique for improving retrieval effectiveness, relevance feedback (RF) has been widely studied in both monolingual and translingual information retrieval (TLIR). The studies of RF in TLIR have been focused on query expansion (QE), in which queries are reformulated before and/or after they are translated. However, RF in TLIR actually not only can help select better query terms, but also can enhance query translation by adjusting translation probabilities and even resolving some out-of-vocabulary terms. In this paper, we propose a novel relevance feedback method called translation enhancement (TE), which uses the extracted translation relationships from relevant documents to revise the translation probabilities of query terms and to identify extra available translation alternatives so that the translated queries are more tuned to the current search. We studied TE using pseudo-relevance feedback (PRF) and interactive relevance feedback (IRF). Our results show that TE can significantly improve TLIR with both types of relevance feedback methods, and that the improvement is comparable to that of query expansion. More importantly, the effects of translation enhancement and query expansion are complementary. Their integration can produce further improvement, and makes TLIR more robust for a variety of queries.
Keywords: Translingual information retrieval; Relevance feedback; Translation enhancement; Query expansion

Jie Cao, Bin Wang, Douglas Brown, Similarity based leaf image retrieval using multiscale R-angle description, Information Sciences, Volume 374, 20 December 2016, Pages 51-64, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2016.09.023.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025516308088)
Abstract: Abstract
Leaf image identification is a significant and challenging application of computer vision and image processing. A central issue associated with this task is how to effectively and efficiently describe the leaf images and measure their similarities. In this paper, a novel shape descriptor termed R-angle is proposed. R-angle describes the curvature of the contour by measuring the angle between the intersections of the shape contour with a circle of radius R centered at points sampled around the contour. It is intrinsically invariant to group transforms including scaling, rotation and translation. Varying the parameter R of the proposed R-angle naturally introduces the notation of scale, which we leverage to provide a coarse-to-fine description of the local curvature. A local scale arrangement is proposed by taking the distance between each contour point and the center of the shape to be the maximum scale for a given contour point. Two matching schemes, including L1-norm matching and dynamic programming based matching, are applied to measure the similarities of the leaf shapes. The retrieval experiments conducted on two challenging leaf image datasets indicate that the proposed method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art methods for leaf identification. An additional experiment on an animal dataset also indicates its potential for general shape recognition.
Keywords: Plant identification; Shape description; Invariant features; Shape matching; Leaf image retrieval

Stefan Poslad, Kraisak Kesorn, A Multi-Modal Incompleteness Ontology model (MMIO) to enhance information fusion for image retrieval, Information Fusion, Volume 20, November 2014, Pages 225-241, ISSN 1566-2535, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2014.02.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1566253514000190)
Abstract: Abstract
A significant effort by researchers has advanced the ability of computers to understand, index and annotate images. This entails automatic domain specific knowledge-base (KB) construction and metadata extraction from visual information and any associated textual information. However, it is challenging to fuse visual and textual information and build a complete domain-specific KB for image annotation due to several factors such as: the ambiguity of natural language to describe image features; the semantic gap when using image features to represent visual content and the incompleteness of the metadata in the KB. Typically the KB is based upon a domain specific Ontology. However, it is not an easy task to extract the data needed from annotations and images, and then to automatically process these and transform them into an integrated Ontology model, because of the ambiguity of terms and because of image processing algorithm errors. As such, it is difficult to construct a complete KB covering a specific domain of knowledge. This paper presents a Multi-Modal Incompleteness Ontology-based (MMIO) system for image retrieval based upon fusing two derived indices. The first index exploits low-level features extracted from images. A novel technique is proposed to represent the semantics of visual content, by restructuring visual word vectors into an Ontology model by computing the distance between the visual word features and concept features, the so called concept range. The second index relies on a textual description which is processed to extract and recognise the concepts, properties, or instances that are defined in an Ontology. The two indexes are fused into a single indexing model, which is used to enhance the image retrieval efficiency. Nonetheless, this rich index may not be sufficient to find the desired images. Therefore, a Latent Semantic Indexing (LSI) algorithm is exploited to search for similar words to those used in a query. As a result, it is possible to retrieve images with a query using (similar) words that do not appear in the caption. The efficiency of the KB is validated experimentally with respect to three criteria, correctness, multimodality, and robustness. The results show that the multi-modal metadata in the proposed KB could be utilised efficiently. An additional experiment demonstrates that LSI can handle an incomplete KB effectively. Using LSI, the system can still retrieve relevant images when information in the Ontology is missing, leading to an enhanced retrieval performance.
Keywords: Multi-Modal Ontology; Knowledge base; Incomplete Ontology; Visual and textual information fusion

Lu Liu, Xiaoqing Lu, Yuan Liao, Yongtao Wang, Zhi Tang, Improving retrieval of plane geometry figure with learning to rank, Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 83, Part 3, 1 November 2016, Pages 423-429, ISSN 0167-8655, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2016.05.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167865516301040)
Abstract: Abstract
Educational images are increasingly becoming available online, but an effective method to search for such images is nonexistent, particularly for graph-based digital resources. This paper focuses on plane geometry figure (PGF) retrieval with ranking optimization to retrieve relevant digital geometry materials. A learning to rank model is introduced to rearrange the unsatisfactory order of highly similar PGFs in retrieval results. Moreover, to enhance the retrieval accuracy and efficiency, we perform feature selection for ranking according to the quality and redundancy of several specific types of PGF features. We perform retrieval experiments and evaluations on two PGF datasets, and results show that our PGF retrieval method improves figure retrieval accuracy better than existing methods.
Keywords: Learning to rank; Ranking optimization; Shape retrieval; Plane geometry figure; Feature selection

Bai Li, Changjun Zhou, Hong Liu, Ya Li, Hongxin Cao, Image retrieval via balance-evolution artificial bee colony algorithm and lateral inhibition, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 127, Issue 24, December 2016, Pages 11775-11785, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2016.09.085.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402616311044)
Abstract: Abstract
Image retrieval is a fundamental issue in pattern recognition. In this work, lateral inhibition (LI) model is adopted as a pre-processing step, which widens the gray level gradients so as to facilitate the image retrieval scheme. In searching for a perfect match between a predefined template and a reference image, we adopt metaheuristic algorithms for good seach capability. Artificial bee colony (ABC) algorithm is a bio-inspired optimization technique, which imitates the foraging behavior of honey bee swarms. It is well known that the algorithm is good at exploration but poor at exploitation. We present balance-evolution artificial bee colony (BE-ABC) algorithm that aims to strike a balance between exploration and exploitation rather than just focusing on improving the latter. BE-ABC algorithm adaptively manipulates the search intensity at the exploration and exploitation stages during the iterations. Besides that, it incorporates an overall degradation procedure to prevent premature convergence. Simulation results confirm that BE-ABC algorithm is more capable than several state-of-the-art metaheuristic algorithms in this image retrieval scheme.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Metaheuristics; Lateral inhibition; Artificial bee colony; Overall degradation

Linfei Chen, Guojun Chang, Bingyu He, Haidan Mao, Daomu Zhao, Optical image conversion and encryption by diffraction, phase retrieval algorithm and incoherent superposition, Optics and Lasers in Engineering, Volume 88, January 2017, Pages 221-232, ISSN 0143-8166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optlaseng.2016.08.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0143816616301865)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, an optical encryption system is proposed based on tricolor principle, Fresnel diffraction, and phase iterative algorithms. Different from the traditional encryption system, the encrypted image of this system is a color image and the plaintext of it is a gray image, which can achieve the combination of a color image and a gray image and the conversion of one image to another image. Phase masks can be generated by using the phase iterative algorithms in this paper. The six phase masks and the six diffracting distances are all essential keys in the process of decryption, which can greatly enhance the system security. Numerical simulations are shown to prove the possibility and safety of the method.
Keywords: Optical image encryption; Fresnel diffraction; Phase retrieval algorithm; Incoherent superposition

Paul C. Diémoz, Fabio A. Vittoria, Charlotte K. Hagen, Marco Endrizzi, Paola Coan, Alberto Bravin, Ulrich H. Wagner, Christoph Rau, Ian K. Robinson, Alessandro Olivo, A single-image retrieval method for edge illumination X-ray phase-contrast imaging: Application and noise analysis, Physica Medica, Volume 32, Issue 12, December 2016, Pages 1759-1764, ISSN 1120-1797, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejmp.2016.07.093.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1120179716302265)
Abstract: AbstractPurpose
Edge illumination (EI) X-ray phase-contrast imaging (XPCI) has been under development at University College London in recent years, and has shown great potential for both laboratory and synchrotron applications. In this work, we propose a new acquisition and processing scheme. Contrary to existing retrieval methods for EI, which require as input two images acquired in different setup configurations, the proposed approach can retrieve an approximate map of the X-ray phase from a single image, thus significantly simplifying the acquisition procedure and reducing data collection times.
Methods
The retrieval method is analytically derived, based on the assumption of a quasi-homogeneous object, i.e. an object featuring a constant ratio between refractive index and absorption coefficient. The noise properties of the input and retrieved images are also theoretically analyzed under the developed formalism. The method is applied to experimental synchrotron images of a biological object.
Results
The experimental results show that the method can provide high-quality images, where the “edge” signal typical of XPCI images is transformed to an “area” contrast that enables an easier interpretation of the sample geometry. Moreover, the retrieved images confirm that the method is highly stable against noise.
Conclusions
We anticipate that the developed approach will become the method of choice for a variety of applications of EI XPCI, thanks to its ability to simplify the acquisition procedure and reduce acquisitions time and dose to the sample. Future work will focus on the adaptation of the method to computed tomography and to polychromatic radiation from X-ray tubes.
Keywords: Phase-contrast imaging; Edge illumination; Fast imaging; Phase retrieval

Marie-Claude Djidja, Emmanuelle Claude, Peter Scriven, David W. Allen, Vikki A. Carolan, Malcolm R. Clench, Antigen retrieval prior to on-tissue digestion of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumour tissue sections yields oxidation of proline residues, Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) - Proteins and Proteomics, Available online 8 December 2016, ISSN 1570-9639, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbapap.2016.11.019.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1570963916302588)
Abstract: Abstract
MALDI-mass spectrometry imaging (MALDI-MSI) has been shown to allow the study of protein distribution and identification directly within formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue sections. However, direct protein identification from tissue sections remains challenging due to signal interferences and/or existing post-translational or other chemical modifications. The use of antigen retrieval (AR) has been demonstrated for unlocking proteins prior to in situ enzymatic digestion and MALDI-MSI analysis of FFPE tissue sections. In the work reported here, the identification of proline oxidation, which may occur when performing the AR protocol, is described. This facilitated and considerably increased the number of identified peptides when adding proline oxidation as a variable modification to the MASCOT search criteria. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: MALDI Imaging, edited by Dr. Corinna Henkel and Prof. Peter Hoffmann.
Keywords: MALDI; Imaging; FFPE; Antigen retrieval; Proline oxidation

Xianming Lin, Yunhang Shen, Ling Cai, Rongrong Ji, The distributed system for inverted multi-index visual retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 215, 26 November 2016, Pages 241-249, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.11.131.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216306427)
Abstract: Abstract
With the explosive growth of visual databases, it is infeasible to maintain the huge indexing structures within the memory of a single server. In this paper, a distributed visual retrieval system based on inverted multi-index is proposed to generate a huge codebook with very low memory consumption and time cost. In order to improve the performance of product quantization, a vector space decomposition strategy is performed by affinity propagation clustering. In the meantime, a distributed framework is introduced to inverted multi-index to improve the time efficiency. Our works are validated on the large scale database of INRIA Holidays and Flickr 1M. The results of our experiments indicate that the performance of PQ is greatly improved and the visual retrieval system is speeded up at comparable precision.
Keywords: Distributed inverted multi-index; APC-PQ; Visual retrieval

Colum Foley, Alan F. Smeaton, Division of labour and sharing of knowledge for synchronous collaborative information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 46, Issue 6, November 2010, Pages 762-772, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2009.10.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457309001319)
Abstract: Synchronous collaborative information retrieval (SCIR) is concerned with supporting two or more users who search together at the same time in order to satisfy a shared information need. SCIR systems represent a paradigmatic shift in the way we view information retrieval, moving from an individual to a group process and as such the development of novel IR techniques is needed to support this. In this article we present what we believe are two key concepts for the development of effective SCIR namely division of labour (DoL) and sharing of knowledge (SoK). Together these concepts enable coordinated SCIR such that redundancy across group members is reduced whilst enabling each group member to benefit from the discoveries of their collaborators. In this article we outline techniques from state-of-the-art SCIR systems which support these two concepts, primarily through the provision of awareness widgets. We then outline some of our own work into system-mediated techniques for division of labour and sharing of knowledge in SCIR. Finally we conclude with a discussion on some possible future trends for these two coordination techniques.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Collaborative information retrieval; Collaborative search

Adrien Depeursinge, Henning Miiller, Medical Visual Information Retrieval Based on Multi-Dimensional Texture Modeling, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 7, 2011, Pages 127-129, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2011.09.041.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050911006016)
Abstract: The importance of medical visual information search and the major challenges ahead are detailed. Experiences from research activities of the eight past years at the MedGIFT group are shared and subsequent ongoing research directions are proposed to yield a flexible framework for indexing medical visual information of any dimension and any modality based on texture information.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; texture; information; systems; medical image analysis

Antonio Jimeno-Yepes, Rafael Berlanga-Llavori, Dietrich Rebholz-Schuhmann, Ontology refinement for improved information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 46, Issue 4, July 2010, Pages 426-435, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2009.05.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457309000636)
Abstract: Ontologies are frequently used in information retrieval being their main applications the expansion of queries, semantic indexing of documents and the organization of search results. Ontologies provide lexical items, allow conceptual normalization and provide different types of relations. However, the optimization of an ontology to perform information retrieval tasks is still unclear. In this paper, we use an ontology query model to analyze the usefulness of ontologies in effectively performing document searches. Moreover, we propose an algorithm to refine ontologies for information retrieval tasks with preliminary positive results.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Information extraction; Ontology refinement; Lexicon cleansing

Steven B. Daines, Chelsea N. Koch, Steven B. Haas, Geoffrey H. Westrich, Timothy M. Wright, Does Achieving High Flexion Increase Polyethylene Damage in Posterior-Stabilized Knees? A Retrieval Study, The Journal of Arthroplasty, Volume 32, Issue 1, January 2017, Pages 274-279, ISSN 0883-5403, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arth.2016.07.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0883540316303643)
Abstract: AbstractBackground
Increased range of motion to higher degrees of flexion following total knee arthroplasty has been postulated to increase implant damage and revision rates, even in designs modified to accommodate high flexion.
Methods
We examined posterior-stabilized and high-flexion retrieved tibial inserts to look for differences in polyethylene surface damage with light microscopy and 3D deviation with laser scanning between inserts from patients who achieved a high degree of flexion (≥120° postoperatively) and inserts from patients who did not reach a high degree of flexion.
Results
No differences were found in damage scores on the articular and backside surfaces, except for abrasion in the posterior articular regions, or in 3D deviations between patients who reached a high degree of flexion and patients who did not. These results were independent of the reason for revision.
Conclusion
In our series, reaching a high degree of flexion did not influence surface damage or 3D deviation of the polyethylene inserts.
Keywords: range of motion; total knee arthroplasty; polyethylene wear; posterior-stabilized knees; retrieval analysis

Chi-Chun Lo, Ting-Huan Kuo, Hsu-Yang Kung, Hsiang-Ting Kao, Chi-Hua Chen, Che-I Wu, Ding-Yuan Cheng, Mobile merchandise evaluation service using novel information retrieval and image recognition technology, Computer Communications, Volume 34, Issue 2, 15 February 2011, Pages 120-128, ISSN 0140-3664, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2010.03.033.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140366410001659)
Abstract: Consumers’ purchasing behavior has obviously changed in recent years with developments in social economics. This change has been evident in the decreased ratio of planned purchases but not in the increase of planned (or spontaneous) purchases. This act of spontaneous or otherwise unplanned purchasing is called “impulse buying”. However, buying under these conditions costs more money always comes with negative responses, such as complaints and regret. Therefore, we propose and have designed a new merchandise recommendation system, the Mobile Merchandise Evaluation Service Platform (MMESP). This is a three-tier system composed of Real-time Merchandise Identifying System (RMIS), Real-time Merchandise Evaluation System (RMES), and Real-time Merchandise Recommendation System (RMRS). With this system, Mobile Users (MUs) take pictures of merchandise and send them to MMESP, RMIS integrates Region Adjacency Graph (RAG) and Self-Organizing Maps (SOM) to gather information on the merchandise through those photographs, and. RMES and RMRS provide Intelligence Agents (IAs) and Multiple Document Summarization (MDS) to summarize recommendations on merchandise for MUs, all in real time.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Region adjacency graph; Self-organizing maps; Multiple document summarization; Mobile device

Le Kuai, Vijay Natraj, Run-Lie Shia, Charles Miller, Yuk L. Yung, Channel selection using information content analysis: A case study of CO2 retrieval from near infrared measurements, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 111, Issue 9, June 2010, Pages 1296-1304, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2010.02.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407310000828)
Abstract: A major challenge in retrieving CO2 concentrations from thermal infrared remote sensing comes from the fact that measurements in the 4.3 and 15 μm absorption bands (AIRS or TES) are sensitive to both temperature and CO2 variations. This complicates the selection of absorption channels with maximum CO2 concentration information content. In contrast, retrievals using near infrared (NIR) CO2 absorption bands are relatively insensitive to temperature and are most sensitive to changes of CO2 near the surface, where the sources and sinks are located. The Orbiting Carbon Observatory (OCO) was built to measure reflected sunlight in three NIR spectral regions (the 0.76 μm O2 A-band and two CO2 bands at 1.61 and 2.06 μm). In an effort to significantly increase the speed of accurate CO2 retrieval algorithms for OCO, we performed an information content analysis to identify the 20 best channels from each CO2 spectral region to use in OCO retrievals. Retrievals using these 40 channels provide as much as 75% of the total CO2 information content compared to retrievals using all 1016 channels in each spectral region. The CO2 retrievals using our selected channels have a precision better than 0.1 ppm. This technique can be applied to the retrieval of other geophysical variables (e.g., temperature or CH4), or modified for other instruments, such as AIRS or TES.
Keywords: Retrieval; Channel selection; Information analysis; Carbon dioxide

Francisco Bueno, Ana García-Serrano, José L. Martínez-Fernández, Enrichment of text documents using information retrieval techniques in a distributed environment, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 37, Issue 12, December 2010, Pages 8348-8358, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2010.05.048.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417410004598)
Abstract: The main goal of the paper is to describe a distributed information retrieval model deployed in order to enable the different functionalities needed for the enrichment of a document. Enriching a document here means finding, in a distributed environment, most of the documents related to it. Moreover, the environment is in a context in which documents are news, which may arrive to the system at any time, and the response time is critical. We first define the architecture to be deployed, designed with the aim of testing the effect of different combination approaches for selecting and ranking a set of documents in a continuously changing environment. Then we discuss the different techniques that can be used in the approach. Finally, we describe a prototype version of the developed software, previously settled in EU project NEDINE (e-Content 2225), using Ciao and taking advantage of its features for the development of distributed systems, using also Java for interfacing the system.
Keywords: Distributed information retrieval; Merging techniques; Vector space model applications; Java and Prolog programming languages for prototyping; Implemented system architecture

Juan M. Fernández-Luna, Juan F. Huete, Ramiro Pérez-Vázquez, Julio C. Rodrı´guez-Cano, CIRLab: A groupware framework for collaborative information retrieval research, Information Processing & Management, Volume 46, Issue 6, November 2010, Pages 749-761, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2009.10.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457309001307)
Abstract: In this paper we describe the design of a groupware framework, CIRLab, for experimenting with collaborative information retrieval (CIR) techniques in different search scenarios. This framework has been designed applying design patterns and an object-oriented middleware platform to maximize its reusability and adaptability in new contexts with a minimum of programming efforts. Our collaborative search application comprises three main modules: the Core, which supports various modern state-of-the-art CIR techniques that can be reused or extended in a distributed collaborative environment; the Facades Mediator, an event-driven notification service which allows easy integration between the Core and front-end applications; and finally, the Actions Tracker, which allows researchers to perform experiments on the different elements involved in the collaborative search sessions. The applying of this framework is illustrated through the analysis of the collaborative search-driven development case study.
Keywords: Collaborative information retrieval; Collaborative search; Source-code search; Search-driven development; Framework; Groupware

Nils Boysen, Konrad Stephan, A survey on single crane scheduling in automated storage/retrieval systems, European Journal of Operational Research, Volume 254, Issue 3, 1 November 2016, Pages 691-704, ISSN 0377-2217, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejor.2016.04.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0377221716302272)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper addresses the scheduling of a single storage/retrieval machine (or crane) in automated storage/retrieval systems (ASRSs). A novel classification scheme is presented for precisely defining different versions of the crane scheduling problem, when varying the layout of the ASRS, the characteristics of the storage and retrieval requests, and the objective function. This classification scheme is then applied for presenting different (known and novel) exact algorithms and complexity proofs for a variety of crane scheduling problems, for reviewing the literature, and for identifying future research needs.
Keywords: Warehousing; Automated storage/retrieval systems; Crane scheduling; Classification

Soon Chong Johnson Lim, Ying Liu, Wing Bun Lee, Multi-facet product information search and retrieval using semantically annotated product family ontology, Information Processing & Management, Volume 46, Issue 4, July 2010, Pages 479-493, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2009.09.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457309001034)
Abstract: With the advent of various services and applications of Semantic Web, semantic annotation has emerged as an important research topic. The application of semantically annotated ontology had been evident in numerous information processing and retrieval tasks. One of such tasks is utilizing the semantically annotated ontology in product design which is able to suggest many important applications that are critical to aid various design related tasks. However, ontology development in design engineering remains a time consuming and tedious task that demands considerable human efforts. In the context of product family design, management of different product information that features efficient indexing, update, navigation, search and retrieval across product families is both desirable and challenging. For instance, an efficient way of retrieving timely information on product family can be useful for tasks such as product family redesign and new product variant derivation when requirements change. However, the current research and application of information search and navigation in product family is mostly limited to its structural aspect which is insufficient to handle advanced information search especially when the query targets at multiple aspects of a product. This paper attempts to address this problem by proposing an information search and retrieval framework based on the semantically annotated multi-facet product family ontology. Particularly, we propose a document profile (DP) model to suggest semantic tags for annotation purpose. Using a case study of digital camera families, we illustrate how the faceted search and retrieval of product information can be accomplished. We also exemplify how we can derive new product variants based on the designer’s query of requirements via the faceted search and retrieval of product family information. Lastly, in order to highlight the value of our current work, we briefly discuss some further research and applications in design decision support, e.g. commonality analysis and variety comparison, based on the semantically annotated multi-facet product family ontology.
Keywords: Information management and retrieval; Semantic annotation; Multi-facet; Product family; Ontology

Alireza Alaei, Partha Pratim Roy, Umapada Pal, Logo and seal based administrative document image retrieval: A survey, Computer Science Review, Volume 22, November 2016, Pages 47-63, ISSN 1574-0137, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cosrev.2016.09.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574013715300186)
Abstract: Abstract
With the advance of technology, business offices and organizations together with their clients create a massive amount of administrative documents every day. Administrative documents commonly contain some salient entities such as logos, stamps or seals as the means of their authentication and proprietorship. These salient entities provide quite discriminative information, which can effectively be used for different tasks of document image retrieval, classification and recognition in document-based applications. Thus, proper detection/recognition of these entities in document images increases the performance of such applications in terms of document retrieval, classification, and recognition. To present the state-of-the-art research on the retrieval of administrative document images, this paper deals with a survey of administrative document image retrieval in relation to seals and logos. All the available datasets, feature extraction and classification techniques for logo and seal detection/recognition are discussed systematically. The shortcomings of the present technologies on logo and seal based document processing are also highlighted. Avenues of the future works are further given for the benefit of readers. To the best of authors’ knowledge, there is no survey on administrative document image retrieval and hence the authors hope that this work will be helpful to the researchers of the document analysis community.
Keywords: Administrative document image; Logo; Seal; Detection; Recognition; Retrieval

Biyuan Li, Chen Tang, Xinjun Zhu, Xia Chen, Yonggang Su, Yuanxue Cai, A 3D shape retrieval method for orthogonal fringe projection based on a combination of variational image decomposition and variational mode decomposition, Optics and Lasers in Engineering, Volume 86, November 2016, Pages 345-355, ISSN 0143-8166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optlaseng.2016.06.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0143816616301257)
Abstract: Abstract
The orthogonal fringe projection technique has as wide as long practical application nowadays. In this paper, we propose a 3D shape retrieval method for orthogonal composite fringe projection based on a combination of variational image decomposition (VID) and variational mode decomposition (VMD). We propose a new image decomposition model to extract the orthogonal fringe. Then we introduce the VMD method to separate the horizontal and vertical fringe from the orthogonal fringe. Lastly, the 3D shape information is obtained by the differential 3D shape retrieval method (D3D). We test the proposed method on a simulated pattern and two actual objects with edges or abrupt changes in height, and compare with the recent, related and advanced differential 3D shape retrieval method (D3D) in terms of both quantitative evaluation and visual quality. The experimental results have demonstrated the validity of the proposed method.
Keywords: Orthogonal fringe projection; Variational image decomposition; Variational mode decomposition; Shape retrieval; Fourier transform

M.-P. Gagnon, P. Pluye, M. Desmartis, J. Car, C. Pagliari, M. Labrecque, P. Frémont, J. Gagnon, M. Njoya, F. Légaré, A systematic review of interventions promoting clinical information retrieval technology (CIRT) adoption by healthcare professionals, International Journal of Medical Informatics, Volume 79, Issue 10, October 2010, Pages 669-680, ISSN 1386-5056, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2010.07.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1386505610001280)
Abstract: Purpose
This paper presents the evidence on the effectiveness of interventions promoting the use of clinical information retrieval technologies (CIRTs) by healthcare professionals.
Methods
We electronically searched articles published between January 1990 and March 2008 using following inclusion criteria: (1) participants were healthcare professionals; (2) specific intervention promoted CIRT adoption; (3) studies were randomised controlled trials, controlled clinical trials, controlled before and after studies or interrupted time series analyses; and (4) they objectively reporting measured outcomes on CIRT use.
Results
We found nine studies focusing on CIRT use. Main outcomes measured were searching skills and/or frequency of use of electronic databases by healthcare professionals. Three studies reported a positive effect of the intervention on CIRT use, one showed a positive impact post-intervention, and four studies failed to demonstrate significant intervention effect. The ninth study examined financial disincentives, and found a significant negative effect of introducing user fees for searching MEDLINE in clinical settings. A meta-analysis showed that educational meetings were the only type of interventions reporting consistent positive effects on CIRT adoption.
Conclusion
CIRT is an information and communication technology commonly used in healthcare settings. Interventions promoting CIRT adoption by healthcare professionals have shown some success in improving searching skills and use of electronic databases. However, the effectiveness of these interventions remains uncertain and more rigorous studies are needed.
Keywords: Systematic review; Clinical information retrieval technologies; ICT adoption; Healthcare professionals; Interventions to promote adoption

Anna Beyeler, Praneeth Namburi, Gordon F. Glober, Clémence Simonnet, Gwendolyn G. Calhoon, Garrett F. Conyers, Robert Luck, Craig P. Wildes, Kay M. Tye, Divergent Routing of Positive and Negative Information from the Amygdala during Memory Retrieval, Neuron, Volume 90, Issue 2, 20 April 2016, Pages 348-361, ISSN 0896-6273, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2016.03.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627316001835)
Abstract: Summary
Although the basolateral amygdala (BLA) is known to play a critical role in the formation of memories of both positive and negative valence, the coding and routing of valence-related information is poorly understood. Here, we recorded BLA neurons during the retrieval of associative memories and used optogenetic-mediated phototagging to identify populations of neurons that synapse in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), the central amygdala (CeA), or ventral hippocampus (vHPC). We found that despite heterogeneous neural responses within each population, the proportions of BLA-NAc neurons excited by reward predictive cues and of BLA-CeA neurons excited by aversion predictive cues were higher than within the entire BLA. Although the BLA-vHPC projection is known to drive behaviors of innate negative valence, these neurons did not preferentially code for learned negative valence. Together, these findings suggest that valence encoding in the BLA is at least partially mediated via divergent activity of anatomically defined neural populations.

Xiaobo Shen, Quan-Sen Sun, Yun-Hao Yuan, Semi-paired hashing for cross-view retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 213, 12 November 2016, Pages 14-23, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.01.121.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092523121630724X)
Abstract: Abstract
Hashing techniques have been widely applied in the large-scale cross-view retrieval tasks due to the significant advantage of hash codes in computation and storage efficiency. Most existing cross-view hashing methods can only handle fully-paired scenarios, where all samples from different views are paired. However, such full pairwise correspondences may not be available in practical applications. In this paper, we propose a novel hashing method, named semi-paired hashing (SPH), to deal with a more challenging cross-view retrieval task, where only partial pairwise correspondences are provided in advance. Specifically, SPH aims to preserve within-view similarity and cross-view correlation among multi-view data. Similarity structure within each view is obtained via anchor graph. As limited samples are paired, correlation between unpaired samples is exploited via a simple yet effective approach, which estimates cross-view correlation by partial cross-view pairwise information and within-view similarity structure. Besides, we further incorporate two regression terms between original features and target binary codes to reduce the quantization loss. An efficient iterative algorithm is presented to simultaneously solve hash functions and binary codes. Extensive experiments on two benchmark datasets demonstrate the superiority of SPH over the state-of-the-art methods, especially in the semi-paired scenarios.
Keywords: Hashing; Semi-paired; Cross-view; Retrieval

Dmitry S. Efremenko, Olena Schüssler, Adrian Doicu, Diego Loyola, A stochastic cloud model for cloud and ozone retrievals from UV measurements, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 184, November 2016, Pages 167-179, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2016.07.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407316301911)
Abstract: Abstract
The new generation of satellite instruments provides measurements in and around the Oxygen A-band on a global basis and with a relatively high spatial resolution. These data are commonly used for the determination of cloud properties. A stochastic model and radiative transfer model, previously developed by the authors, is used as the forward model component in retrievals of cloud parameters and ozone total and partial columns. The cloud retrieval algorithm combines local and global optimization routines, and yields a retrieval accuracy of about 1% and a fast computational time. Retrieved parameters are the cloud optical thickness and the cloud-top height. It was found that the use of the independent pixel approximation instead of the stochastic cloud model leads to large errors in the retrieved cloud parameters, as well as, in the retrieved ozone height resolved partial columns. The latter can be reduced by using the stochastic cloud model to compute the optimal value of the regularization parameter in the framework of Tikhonov regularization.
Keywords: Stochastic radiative transfer; Ozone retrieval; Cloud retrieval

Flora Ponjou Tasse, Jiří Kosinka, Neil Dodgson, How well do saliency-based features perform for shape retrieval?, Computers & Graphics, Volume 59, October 2016, Pages 57-67, ISSN 0097-8493, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cag.2016.04.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0097849316300346)
Abstract: Abstract
Sparse features have been successfully used in shape retrieval, by encoding feature descriptors into global shape signatures. We investigate how sparse features based on saliency models affect retrieval and provide recommendations on good saliency models for shape retrieval. Our results show that randomly selecting points on the surface produces better retrieval performance than using any of the evaluated salient keypoint detection, including ground-truth. We discuss the reasons for and implications of this unexpected result.
Keywords: Shape retrieval; Salient features; Keypoints; Bag of features

Shiva Imani Moghadasi, Sri Devi Ravana, Sudharshan N. Raman, Low-cost evaluation techniques for information retrieval systems: A review, Journal of Informetrics, Volume 7, Issue 2, April 2013, Pages 301-312, ISSN 1751-1577, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joi.2012.12.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1751157712001046)
Abstract: For a system-based information retrieval evaluation, test collection model still remains as a costly task. Producing relevance judgments is an expensive, time consuming task which has to be performed by human assessors. It is not viable to assess the relevancy of every single document in a corpus against each topic for a large collection. In an experimental-based environment, partial judgment on the basis of a pooling method is created to substitute a complete assessment of documents for relevancy. Due to the increasing number of documents, topics, and retrieval systems, the need to perform low-cost evaluations while obtaining reliable results is essential. Researchers are seeking techniques to reduce the costs of experimental IR evaluation process by the means of reducing the number of relevance judgments to be performed or even eliminating them while still obtaining reliable results. In this paper, various state-of-the-art approaches in performing low-cost retrieval evaluation are discussed under each of the following categories; selecting the best sets of documents to be judged; calculating evaluation measures, both, robust to incomplete judgments; statistical inference of evaluation metrics; inference of judgments on relevance, query selection; techniques to test the reliability of the evaluation and reusability of the constructed collections; and other alternative methods to pooling. This paper is intended to link the reader to the corpus of ‘must read’ papers in the area of low-cost evaluation of IR systems.
Keywords: Retrieval evaluation; Effectiveness metrics; Relevance judgment; Test collection; Pooling

Javier A. Concha, John R. Schott, Retrieval of color producing agents in Case 2 waters using Landsat 8, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 185, November 2016, Pages 95-107, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2016.03.018.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425716301109)
Abstract: Abstract
New approaches need to be considered to solve the current high demand for color producing agent (CPA) retrievals over inland and coastal waters (Case 2 waters). Traditional retrieval algorithms are known to fail over highly turbid Case 2 waters because they were developed specifically for the open ocean (Case 1 waters). Landsat 8 provides an improved signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and a new spectral coastal aerosol band in the blue. This additional information provides means to tackle this retrieval endeavor. A look-up-table (LUT) and spectrum-matching methodology was implemented to simultaneously retrieve CPAs, taking advantage of Landsat 8's new features. A LUT of spectral remote-sensing reflectances (Rrs) with different concentrations of CPAs was produced using the in-water radiative transfer model HydroLight. A model-based empirical line method (MoB-ELM) algorithm was developed to atmospherically correct the Landsat 8 imagery and allow direct comparison with the LUT of Rrs. This MoB-ELM atmospheric correction algorithm uses pseudo-invariant features (PIFs) from the image, ground-truth data and the HydroLight model. The retrieval algorithm was applied over three Landsat 8 scenes and shows a normalized root mean squared error (NRMSE) of about 14% for chlorophyll-a, 11% for total suspended solids (TSS), and 7% for colored dissolved organic matter (CDOM) when compared with ground-truth data. The CPA concentration maps exhibit expected trends of low concentrations in clear water and higher concentrations in turbid water.

These results demonstrate that the developed algorithm allows the simultaneous mapping of concentration of all CPAs in Case 2 waters and over areas where the traditional algorithms fail or are not available due to spatial resolution. Therefore, this study shows that the Landsat 8 satellite can be utilized over Case 2 waters as long as a careful atmospheric correction is applied.
Keywords: Landsat 8; Color producing agents; CPAs; Case 2 waters; Retrieval

Tomi Kauppinen, Glauco Mantegari, Panu Paakkarinen, Heini Kuittinen, Eero Hyvönen, Stefania Bandini, Determining relevance of imprecise temporal intervals for cultural heritage information retrieval, International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, Volume 68, Issue 9, September 2010, Pages 549-560, ISSN 1071-5819, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhcs.2010.03.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S107158191000039X)
Abstract: Time is an essential concept in cultural heritage applications. Instances of temporal concepts such as time intervals are used for the annotation of cultural objects and also for querying datasets containing information about these objects. Hence it is important to match query and annotation intervals by examining their similarity or closeness. One of the problems is that in many cases time intervals are imprecise. For example, the boundaries of the “Pre-Roman age” and the “Roman age” are inherently imprecise and it may be difficult to distinguish them with clear-cut intervals. In this paper we apply the fuzzy set theory to model imprecise time intervals in order to determine relevance of the relationship between two time intervals. We present a method for matching query and annotation intervals based on their weighted mutual overlapping and closeness. We present (1) methods for calculating these weights to produce a combined measure and (2) results of comparing the combined measure with human evaluators as a case study. The case study takes into consideration archaeological temporal information, which is in most cases inherently fuzzy, and therefore offers a particularly complex and challenging scenario. The results show that our new combined measure that utilizes different weighted measures together in rankings, performs the best in terms of precision and recall. It should be used when ranking annotation intervals according to a given query interval in cultural heritage information retrieval. Our approach intends to be generalizable: overlapping and closeness may be calculated between any two fuzzy temporal intervals. The presented procedure of using user evaluation results as a basis for assigning weights for overlapping and closeness could potentially be used to reveal weights in other domains and purposes as well.
Keywords: Fuzzy sets; Time; Information retrieval; Cultural heritage

Ye Liu, Yan Pan, Hanjiang Lai, Cong Liu, Jian Yin, Margin-based two-stage supervised hashing for image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 214, 19 November 2016, Pages 894-901, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.07.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092523121630769X)
Abstract: Abstract
Similarity-preserving hashing is a widely used method for nearest neighbor search in large-scale image retrieval. Recently, supervised hashing methods are appealing in that they learn compact hash codes with fewer bits by incorporating supervised information. In this paper, we propose a new two-stage supervised hashing methods which decomposes the hash learning process into a stage of learning approximate hash codes followed by a stage of learning hash functions. In the first stage, we propose a margin-based objective to find approximate hash codes such that a pair of hash codes associating to a pair of similar (dissimilar) images has sufficiently small (large) Hamming distance. This objective results in a challenging optimization problem. We develop a coordinate descent algorithm to efficiently solve this optimization problem. In the second stage, we use convolutional neural networks to learn hash functions. We conduct extensive evaluations on several benchmark datasets with different kinds of images. The results show that the proposed margin-based hashing method has substantial improvement upon the state-of-the-art supervised or unsupervised hashing methods.
Keywords: Deep learning; Image retrieval; Image hashing; Neural network; Optimization algorithm

Vijay Chandrasekhar, Jie Lin, Olivier Morère, Hanlin Goh, Antoine Veillard, A practical guide to CNNs and Fisher Vectors for image instance retrieval, Signal Processing, Volume 128, November 2016, Pages 426-439, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2016.05.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168416300846)
Abstract: Abstract
With deep learning becoming the dominant approach in computer vision, the use of representations extracted from Convolutional Neural Nets (CNNs) is quickly gaining ground on Fisher Vectors (FVs) as favoured state-of-the-art global image descriptors for image instance retrieval. While the good performance of CNNs for image classification are unambiguously recognised, which of the two has the upper hand in the image retrieval context is not entirely clear yet.

We propose a comprehensive study that systematically evaluates FVs and CNNs for image instance retrieval. The first part compares the performances of FVs and CNNs on multiple publicly available data sets and for multiple criteria. We show that no descriptor is systematically better than the other and that performance gains can usually be obtained by using both types together. The second part of the study focuses on the impact of geometrical transformations. We show that performance of CNNs can quickly degrade in the presence of certain transformations and propose a number of ways to incorporate the required invariances in the CNN pipeline.

Our findings are organised as a reference guide offering practically useful and simply implementable guidelines to anyone looking for state-of-the-art global descriptors best suited to their specific image instance retrieval problem.
Keywords: Convolutional neural networks; Fisher Vectors; Image instance retrieval

Xing Xu, Li He, Atsushi Shimada, Rin-ichiro Taniguchi, Huimin Lu, Learning unified binary codes for cross-modal retrieval via latent semantic hashing, Neurocomputing, Volume 213, 12 November 2016, Pages 191-203, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.11.133.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216307184)
Abstract: Abstract
Nowadays the amount of multimedia data such as images and text is growing exponentially on social websites, arousing the demand of effective and efficient cross-modal retrieval. The cross-modal hashing based methods have attracted considerable attention recently as they can learn efficient binary codes for heterogeneous data, which enables large-scale similarity search. Generally, to effectively construct the cross-correlation between different modalities, these methods try to find a joint abstraction space where the heterogeneous data can be projected. Then a quantization rule is applied to convert the abstraction representation to binary codes. However, these methods may not effectively bridge the semantic gap through the latent abstraction space because they fail to capture latent information between heterogeneous data. In addition, most of these methods apply the simplest quantization scheme (i.e. sign function) which may cause information loss of the abstraction representation and result in inferior binary codes. To address these challenges, in this paper, we present a novel cross-modal hashing based method that generates unified binary codes combining different modalities. Specifically, we first extract semantic features from the modalities of images and text to capture latent information. Then these semantic features are projected to a joint abstraction space. Finally, the abstraction space is rotated to produce better unified binary codes with much less quantization loss, while preserving the locality structure of projected data. We integrate the binary code learning procedures above to develop an iterative algorithm for optimal solutions. Moreover, we further exploit the useful class label information to reduce the semantic gap between different modalities to benefit the binary code learning. Extensive experiments on four multimedia datasets show that the proposed binary coding schemes outperform several other state-of-the-art methods under cross-modal scenarios.
Keywords: Cross-modal retrieval; Hashing; Binary representation; Sparse coding; Matrix factorization

Tieyu Zhao, Qiwen Ran, Lin Yuan, Yingying Chi, Jing Ma, Image encryption using fingerprint as key based on phase retrieval algorithm and public key cryptography, Optics and Lasers in Engineering, Volume 72, September 2015, Pages 12-17, ISSN 0143-8166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optlaseng.2015.03.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S014381661500072X)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, a novel image encryption system with fingerprint used as a secret key is proposed based on the phase retrieval algorithm and RSA public key algorithm. In the system, the encryption keys include the fingerprint and the public key of RSA algorithm, while the decryption keys are the fingerprint and the private key of RSA algorithm. If the users share the fingerprint, then the system will meet the basic agreement of asymmetric cryptography. The system is also applicable for the information authentication. The fingerprint as secret key is used in both the encryption and decryption processes so that the receiver can identify the authenticity of the ciphertext by using the fingerprint in decryption process. Finally, the simulation results show the validity of the encryption scheme and the high robustness against attacks based on the phase retrieval technique.
Keywords: Image encryption; Information authentication; Asymmetric cryptosystem; Phase retrieval

Nimit Pattanasri, Sujeet Pradhan, Katsumi Tanaka, Extending information unit across media streams for improving retrieval effectiveness, Data & Knowledge Engineering, Volume 83, January 2013, Pages 70-92, ISSN 0169-023X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2012.10.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X12000985)
Abstract: This paper specifically addresses the effectiveness of our theoretically-based two dimensional retrieval model for searching semantically synchronized media streams. Conventional IR systems, which support partial retrieval of synchronized media streams, retrieve “atomic units”, for example slides, pages and shots of underlying media streams such as presentations, electronic books, and lecture videos respectively. In contrast, our model is based upon the concept of an extended retrieval unit and thus retrieves dynamically integrated media streams comprising several atomic units both along and across media streams. In this paper, in addition to reviewing our model, we describe its system implementation that we developed for conducting experiments on several real-world datasets built from scratch. We then present extensive empirical results which demonstrate that our system outperforms (a) conventional systems based on atomic retrieval units, (b) single dimensional retrieval systems, which extend retrieval units over several atomic units of the same media and (c) cross-media retrieval systems, which extend atomic retrieval units across several media stream units. The results thus verify our claims regarding the effectiveness of our two dimensional retrieval model for retrieving meaningful units of synchronized media streams.
Keywords: Synchronized media streams; Retrieval unit; Document length; Context for retrieval

Ying Liu, Jianjun Huang, Huasheng Zhou, Fan Wang, Feng Wang, Efficient data retrieval method for similar plasma waveforms in EAST, Fusion Engineering and Design, Volume 112, 15 November 2016, Pages 257-260, ISSN 0920-3796, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fusengdes.2016.09.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920379616305786)
Abstract: Abstract
Fusion research relies highly on data analysis due to its massive-sized database. In the present work, we propose an efficient method for searching and retrieving similar plasma waveforms in Experimental Advanced Superconducting Tokamak (EAST). Based on Piecewise Linear Aggregate Approximation (PLAA) for extracting feature values, the searching process is accomplished in two steps. The first one is coarse searching to narrow down the search space, which is carried out by means of bounding envelope. The second step is fine searching to retrieval similar waveforms, which is implemented by the angle distance. The proposed method is tested in EAST databases and turns out to have good performance in retrieving similar waveforms.
Keywords: EAST; Plasma waveform; Similarity retrieval; Data mining; Pattern recognition

Shengtao Sun, Weijing Song, Albert Y. Zomaya, Yang Xiang, Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo, Tejal Shah, Lizhe Wang, Associative retrieval in spatial big data based on spreading activation with semantic ontology, Future Generation Computer Systems, Available online 26 October 2016, ISSN 0167-739X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2016.10.018.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X16304137)
Abstract: Abstract
The opportunities associated with big data have helped generate significant interest, and big data analytics has emerged as an important area of study for both practitioners and researchers. For example, traditional cause–effect analysis and conditional retrieval fall short in dealing with data that are so large and complex. Associative retrieval, on the other hand, has been identified as a potential technique for big data. In this paper, we integrate the spreading activation (SA) algorithm and the ontology model in order to promote the associative retrieval of big data. In our approach, constraints based on variant weights of semantic links are considered with the aim of improving the spreading-activation process and ensuring the accuracy of search results. Semantic inference rules are also introduced to the SA algorithm to find latent spreading path and help obtain results which are more relevant. Our theoretical and experimental analysis demonstrate the utility of this approach.
Keywords: Big data; Associative retrieval; Spreading activation; Ontology model; Semantic inference

Chandan Singh, Kanwal Preet Kaur, A fast and efficient image retrieval system based on color and texture features, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 41, November 2016, Pages 225-238, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2016.10.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320316302085)
Abstract: Abstract
We propose a fast and efficient image retrieval system based on color and texture features. The color features are represented by color histograms and texture features are represented by block difference of inverse probabilities (BDIP) and block variation of local correlation coefficients (BVLC). It is observed that color features in combination with the texture features derived on the brightness component provides approximately similar results when color features are combined with the texture features using all three components of color, but with much less processing time. An analysis of various distance measures reveals that the square-chord distance measure outperforms the other prominent distance measures for the proposed method. Detailed experimental analysis is carried out using precision and recall on four datasets: Corel-5K, Corel-10K, UKbench and Holidays. The time analysis is also performed to compare processing speeds of the proposed method with the existing similar best methods.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Color histogram; Texture feature; BDIP; BVLC

B. Barla Cambazoglu, Review of “Search Engines: Information Retrieval in Practice” by Croft, Metzler and Strohman, Information Processing & Management, Volume 46, Issue 3, May 2010, Pages 377-379, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2009.12.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457310000051)
Abstract: Despite the common public use of Web search engines, their internal design details mostly remain as a black art. The speculation is that there is a significant knowledge gap between what is published by academia and what is guarded behind the doors of large-scale search companies. “Search Engines: Information Retrieval in Practice” is one of the few books that make an attempt to cover issues involved in search engine design and is probably the most comprehensive book published so far on this topic. Unfortunately, the book fails to be a complete search engine guide as its content is dominated by the topics from information retrieval, text processing, and statistics. More precisely, the focus of the book is biased towards the “search” rather than the “engines” as, in most places, discussions on effectiveness dominate those on efficiency by a great margin. However, the book stands as a very solid IR book.
Keywords: Search engines; Information retrieval

Georgios Paltoglou, Michail Salampasis, Maria Satratzemi, Collection-integral source selection for uncooperative distributed information retrieval environments, Information Sciences, Volume 180, Issue 14, 15 July 2010, Pages 2763-2776, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2010.03.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025510001325)
Abstract: We propose a new integral-based source selection algorithm for uncooperative distributed information retrieval environments. The algorithm functions by modeling each source as a plot, using the relevance score and the intra-collection position of its sampled documents in reference to a centralized sample index. Based on the above modeling, the algorithm locates the collections that contain the most relevant documents. A number of transformations are applied to the original plot, in order to reward collections that have higher scoring documents and dampen the effect of collections returning an excessive number of documents. The family of linear interpolant functions that pass through the points of the modified plot is computed for each available source and the area that they cover in the rank-relevance space is calculated. Information sources are ranked based on the area that they cover. Based on this novel metric for collection relevance, the algorithm is tested in a variety of testbeds in both recall and precision oriented settings and its performance is found to be better or at least equal to previous state-of-the-art approaches, overall constituting a very effective and robust solution.
Keywords: Source selection; Distributed information retrieval; Federated search

Seung-Hoon Na, Probabilistic co-relevance for query-sensitive similarity measurement in information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 49, Issue 2, March 2013, Pages 558-575, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2012.10.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457312001215)
Abstract: Interdocument similarities are the fundamental information source required in cluster-based retrieval, which is an advanced retrieval approach that significantly improves performance during information retrieval (IR). An effective similarity metric is query-sensitive similarity, which was introduced by Tombros and Rijsbergen as method to more directly satisfy the cluster hypothesis that forms the basis of cluster-based retrieval. Although this method is reported to be effective, existing applications of query-specific similarity are still limited to vector space models wherein there is no connection to probabilistic approaches. We suggest a probabilistic framework that defines query-sensitive similarity based on probabilistic co-relevance, where the similarity between two documents is proportional to the probability that they are both co-relevant to a specific given query. We further simplify the proposed co-relevance-based similarity by decomposing it into two separate relevance models. We then formulate all the requisite components for the proposed similarity metric in terms of scoring functions used by language modeling methods. Experimental results obtained using standard TREC test collections consistently showed that the proposed query-sensitive similarity measure performs better than term-based similarity and existing query-sensitive similarity in the context of Voorhees’ nearest neighbor test (NNT).
Keywords: Probabilistic co-relevance; Query-sensitive similarity; Inter-document similarity; Cluster hypothesis; Cluster-based retrieval

Tony Wauters, Fulgencia Villa, Jan Christiaens, Ramon Alvarez-Valdes, Greet Vanden Berghe, A decomposition approach to dual shuttle automated storage and retrieval systems, Computers & Industrial Engineering, Volume 101, November 2016, Pages 325-337, ISSN 0360-8352, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2016.09.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360835216303539)
Abstract: Abstract
Automated Storage and Retrieval Systems (AS/RS) have become vital in today’s distribution and production environments, however it remains necessary to equip them with more efficient operational control policies. Motivated by real situations encountered by companies employing AS/RS, the present paper studies a miniload AS/RS system, with a dual shuttle crane in which a set of storage and retrieval requests must be scheduled such that the prioritized waiting time is minimized. Dual shuttle cranes have received minimal academic attention and thus continue to pose new problems that must be solved. The miniload AS/RS problem is addressed by decomposing it into a location assignment and sequencing problem. Different heuristic strategies are introduced for making the assignments, while a general mathematical model and efficient branch and bound procedure are proposed for optimizing the sequence. Additionally, a fast metaheuristic capable of solving larger instances is also developed. A set of real-world based benchmarks with varying characteristics is generated to evaluate the proposed methods. Very small instances prove the only for which optimal sequences are found in reasonable calculation time. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the heuristic decomposition method.
Keywords: Logistics; Automated storage and retrieval systems; Warehouse; Heuristics; Decomposition; Control policies; Dual shuttle

Laura Espín, Mónica Marquina, Vanesa Hidalgo, Alicia Salvador, Jesús Gómez-Amor, No effects of psychosocial stress on memory retrieval in non-treated young students with Generalized Social Phobia, Psychoneuroendocrinology, Volume 73, November 2016, Pages 51-62, ISSN 0306-4530, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psyneuen.2016.07.211.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306453016304541)
Abstract: Abstract
Generalized Social Phobia (GSP) is a common anxiety disorder that produces clear social life disruptions. There is no consensus on the specific processes involved in its development, but the role of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis has been suggested. This study analyzed the effects of the cortisol response to the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) on the memory retrieval of pictures with different emotional valences in 45 non-treated young students with GSP and 50 non-anxious (NA) subjects (mean = 19.35 years, SD = 0.18). No differences were found in the cortisol response of GSP and NA subjects to the TSST and control sessions. In addition, psychosocial stress impaired memory retrieval in both the GSP and NA groups, with no differences between them. Regarding the sex factor, no effects were found in the cortisol response to the TSST. However, during the encoding session, GSP men had higher cortisol levels than GSP women and NA subjects. There was also a significant interaction between sex and stress exposure on memory retrieval. Women recognized more unpleasant and neutral pictures than men; however, under stress, the women’s advantage disappeared, and the men’s performance improved. Sex also interacted with social phobia on positive mood, with GSP women exposed to the TSST showing the lowest positive mood. These results suggest that GSP subjects do not present an HPA axis sensitization to psychosocial stress, and they emphasize the importance of Sex in understanding stress effects on memory.
Keywords: Generalized Social Phobia; Salivary cortisol; TSST; Sex differences; Memory retrieval

Zong-Yao Chen, Wei-Chao Lin, Chih-Fong Tsai, Shih-Wen Ke, 3D model retrieval by sample based alignment, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 40, Part B, October 2016, Pages 721-731, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2016.08.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320316301766)
Abstract: Abstract
In 3D model retrieval, preprocessing of 3D models is needed, in which alignment is a key factor that significantly affects retrieval performance. In particular, the anti-rotation image feature can obtain the alignment effect of 3D model views. In practice, the focus of many users of 3D models is not just on retrieval performance, but the use of aligned models for different purposes. In this paper, we propose a method, namely Sample Based Alignment (SBA) for better 3D model alignment and retrieval. In SBA, given a class, a sample model is used as the target for alignment, after which each 3D model in this class is then aligned one by one, i.e., the 3D model is actually rotated. Our experimental results, based on two 3D model datasets and performance comparisons with other methods, demonstrate the superiority of the SBA method over state-of-the-art methods in terms of 3D model retrieval and classification.
Keywords: Multimedia; Retrieval; 3D model; Continuous Principal Component Analysis (CPCA); LightField Descriptors (LFD)

Majid Masoumi, Chunyuan Li, A. Ben Hamza, A spectral graph wavelet approach for nonrigid 3D shape retrieval, Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 83, Part 3, 1 November 2016, Pages 339-348, ISSN 0167-8655, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2016.04.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167865516300617)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we propose a spectral graph wavelet approach for 3D shape retrieval using the bag-of-features paradigm. In an effort to capture both local and global characteristics of a 3D shape, we present a three-step feature description framework. Local descriptors are first extracted via the spectral graph wavelet transform having the Mexican hat wavelet as a generating kernel. Then, mid-level features are obtained by embedding local descriptors into the visual vocabulary space using the soft-assignment coding step of the bag-of-features model. A global descriptor is subsequently constructed by aggregating mid-level features weighted by a geodesic exponential kernel, resulting in a matrix representation that describes the frequency of appearance of nearby codewords in the vocabulary. Then, we compare the global descriptor of a query to all global descriptors of the shapes in the dataset using a dissimilarity measure and find the closest shape. Experimental results on two standard 3D shape benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed shape retrieval approach in comparison with state-of-the-art methods.
Keywords: Shape retrieval; Spectral graph wavelet; Geodesic kernel; Bag-of-features

Daniel Carlos Guimarães Pedronette, Jurandy Almeida, Ricardo da S. Torres, A graph-based ranked-list model for unsupervised distance learning on shape retrieval, Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 83, Part 3, 1 November 2016, Pages 357-367, ISSN 0167-8655, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2016.05.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167865516301052)
Abstract: Abstract
Several re-ranking algorithms have been proposed recently. Some effective approaches are based on complex graph-based diffusion processes, which usually are time consuming and therefore inappropriate for real-world large scale shape collections. In this paper, we introduce a novel graph-based approach for iterative distance learning in shape retrieval tasks. The proposed method is based on the combination of graphs defined in terms of multiple ranked lists. The efficiency of the method is guaranteed by the use of only top positions of ranked lists in the definition of graphs that encode reciprocal references. Effectiveness analysis performed in three widely used shape datasets demonstrate that the proposed graph-based ranked-list model yields significant gains (up to +55.52%) when compared with the use of shape descriptors in isolation. Furthermore, the proposed method also yields comparable or superior effectiveness scores when compared with several state-of-the-art approaches.
Keywords: Shape retrieval; Ranking methods; Graph-based approaches

Feiwei Qin, Shuming Gao, Xiaoling Yang, Ming Li, Jing Bai, An ontology-based semantic retrieval approach for heterogeneous 3D CAD models, Advanced Engineering Informatics, Volume 30, Issue 4, October 2016, Pages 751-768, ISSN 1474-0346, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2016.10.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474034616300891)
Abstract: Abstract
Many types of heterogeneous CAD models created by previous product development activities are stored in enterprise databases. Searching reusable CAD models for engineer design requirements is still very difficult. In this paper, we propose an ontology-based semantic retrieval approach for heterogeneous 3D CAD models by using semantic web theory and information retrieval theory. By exploiting layered feature ontology and ontology mapping, a uniform description for heterogeneous CAD models is generated as semantic descriptor. Meanwhile, to improve the representative ability, several heuristic rules are constructed with the aid of SWRL language and ontology reasoning is acted on the semantic descriptors, which makes our retrieval system achieve better performance. Furthermore, multi-mode similarity measurement is carried out to meet engineers’ diversified requirements. We demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of our approach through experiments on heterogeneous 3D CAD model library.
Keywords: Model retrieval; Semantic-based retrieval; Heterogeneous; Ontology

Ali C. Gedik, Barış Bozkurt, Pitch-frequency histogram-based music information retrieval for Turkish music, Signal Processing, Volume 90, Issue 4, April 2010, Pages 1049-1063, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2009.06.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168409002898)
Abstract: This study reviews the use of pitch histograms in music information retrieval studies for western and non-western music. The problems in applying the pitch-class histogram-based methods developed for western music to non-western music and specifically to Turkish music are discussed in detail. The main problems are the assumptions used to reduce the dimension of the pitch histogram space, such as, mapping to a low and fixed dimensional pitch-class space, the hard-coded use of western music theory, the use of the standard diapason (A4=440 Hz), analysis based on tonality and tempered tuning. We argue that it is more appropriate to use higher dimensional pitch-frequency histograms without such assumptions for Turkish music. We show in two applications, automatic tonic detection and makam recognition, that high dimensional pitch-frequency histogram representations can be successfully used in Music Information Retrieval (MIR) applications without such pre-assumptions, using the data-driven models.
Keywords: Music information retrieval; Turkish music; Non-western music; Western music; Automatic tonic detection; Automatic makam recognition

E. Ankudowich, S. Pasvanis, M.N. Rajah, Changes in the modulation of brain activity during context encoding vs. context retrieval across the adult lifespan, NeuroImage, Volume 139, 1 October 2016, Pages 103-113, ISSN 1053-8119, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2016.06.022.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811916302713)
Abstract: Abstract
Age-related deficits in context memory may arise from neural changes underlying both encoding and retrieval of context information. Although age-related functional changes in the brain regions supporting context memory begin at midlife, little is known about the functional changes with age that support context memory encoding and retrieval across the adult lifespan. We investigated how age-related functional changes support context memory across the adult lifespan by assessing linear changes with age during successful context encoding and retrieval. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we compared young, middle-aged and older adults during both encoding and retrieval of spatial and temporal details of faces. Multivariate behavioral partial least squares (B-PLS) analysis of fMRI data identified a pattern of whole-brain activity that correlated with a linear age term and a pattern of whole-brain activity that was associated with an age-by-memory phase (encoding vs. retrieval) interaction. Further investigation of this latter effect identified three main findings: 1) reduced phase-related modulation in bilateral fusiform gyrus, left superior/anterior frontal gyrus and right inferior frontal gyrus that started at midlife and continued to older age, 2) reduced phase-related modulation in bilateral inferior parietal lobule that occurred only in older age, and 3) changes in phase-related modulation in older but not younger adults in left middle frontal gyrus and bilateral parahippocampal gyrus that was indicative of age-related over-recruitment. We conclude that age-related reductions in context memory arise in midlife and are related to changes in perceptual recollection and changes in fronto-parietal retrieval monitoring.
Keywords: Lifespan; Aging; Episodic memory; Encoding; Retrieval; fMRI

Anderson M. Freitas, Ricardo da S. Torres, Paulo A.V. Miranda, TSS &amp; TSB: Tensor scale descriptors within circular sectors for fast shape retrieval, Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 83, Part 3, 1 November 2016, Pages 303-311, ISSN 0167-8655, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2016.06.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167865516301234)
Abstract: Abstract
We propose two novel region-based descriptors for shape-based image retrieval and analysis, which are built upon an extended tensor scale based on the Euclidean Distance Transform (EDT). First the tensor scale algorithm is applied to extract local structure thickness, orientation, and anisotropy as represented by the largest ellipse within a homogeneous region centered at each image pixel. In this work, we extend the local orientation to 360°. Then, for the first proposed descriptor, named Tensor Scale Sector descriptor (TSS), the local distributions of relative orientations within circular sectors are used to compose a fixed-length feature vector for a region-based representation. For the second method, named Tensor Scale Band descriptor (TSB), we consider histograms of relative orientations for each circular concentric band to compose a fixed-length feature vector with linear time matching. Experimental results with MPEG-7 and MNIST datasets are presented to illustrate and validate the methods. TSS can achieve high retrieval values comparable to state-of-the-art methods, which usually rely on time-consuming correspondence optimization algorithms, but uses a simpler and faster distance function, while the even faster linear complexity of TSB leads to a suitable and better solution for very large shape collections.
Keywords: Shape descriptor; Shape matching; Shape similarity; Content-based image retrieval; Tensor scale

A.O. Ajayi, G.A. Aderounmu, H.A. Soriyan, An adaptive fuzzy information retrieval model to improve response time perceived by e-commerce clients, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 37, Issue 1, January 2010, Pages 82-91, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2009.05.071.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417409004424)
Abstract: In this paper, an adaptive fuzzy logic-based information retrieval model is presented to enable users retrieve exact and specific information they sort after. The proposed IR model takes into consideration the limited bandwidth between ISP and its users; and the characteristics (processor speed, memory size, resolution, availability of anti-virus, etc.) of clients’ devices in ensuring that a customer has a fruitful and eventful session while conducting business online. The model was designed using unified modelling language and implemented using Borland JBuilder. A performance evaluation of the proposed information retrieval system using two evaluation measures was conducted. The experimental result indicated that the model has an acceptable performance.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Fuzzy logic; Response time; Fuzzy expert system

Jun Zheng, Wei Zhang, Tongtong Li, Zhaomin Liu, Liang Luo, Practicing more retrieval routes leads to greater memory retention, Acta Psychologica, Volume 169, September 2016, Pages 109-118, ISSN 0001-6918, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actpsy.2016.05.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0001691816301093)
Abstract: Abstract
A wealth of research has shown that retrieval practice plays a significant role in improving memory retention. The current study focused on one simple yet rarely examined question: would repeated retrieval using two different retrieval routes or using the same retrieval route twice lead to greater long-term memory retention? Participants elaborately learned 22 Japanese-Chinese translation word pairs using two different mediators. Half an hour after the initial study phase, the participants completed two retrieval sessions using either one mediator (Tm1Tm1) or two different mediators (Tm1Tm2). On the final test, which was performed 1 week after the retrieval practice phase, the participants received only the cue with a request to report the mediator (M1 or M2) followed by the target (Experiment 1) or only the mediator (M1 or M2) with a request to report the target (Experiment 2). The results of Experiment 1 indicated that the participants who practiced under the Tm1Tm2 condition exhibited greater target retention than those who practiced under the Tm1Tm1 condition. This difference in performance was due to the significant disadvantage in mediator retrieval and decoding of the unpracticed mediator under the Tm1Tm1 condition. Although mediators were provided to participants on the final test in Experiment 2, decoding of the unpracticed mediators remained less effective than decoding of the practiced mediators. We conclude that practicing multiple retrieval routes leads to greater memory retention than focusing on a single retrieval route. Thus, increasing retrieval variability during repeated retrieval practice indeed significantly improves long-term retention in a delay test.
Keywords: Retrieval variability; Retrieval routes; Memory retention

Forough Kasiri, Ali Mohammad Fazilatfar, The Impact of Task Complexity on Cognitive Processes of L2 Writers and Writing Quality: The Case of Writing Expertise, L1, and Lexical Retrieval, Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, Volume 232, 14 October 2016, Pages 561-568, ISSN 1877-0428, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2016.10.077.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042816313106)
Abstract: Abstract
This study scrutinized the effect of task complexity on cognitive processes of L2 writers with respect to L2 writing expertise, speed of lexical retrieval, L1, and text quality. Sixty TEFL students with different writing expertise completed a computerized Written Productive Translation, as well as three L1 and L2 argumentative writing tasks, manipulated in regard to resource-dispersing dimensions followed-up by retrospective questionnaires. The texts were analysed in terms of accuracy, fluency, and syntactic complexity. Running MANOVA indicated that task complexity had no effect on fluency, accuracy, and syntactic complexity. However, the speed of retrieval was remarkably affected by writer's expertise. Moreover, there was no difference between L2 and L1 writing processes. The upshot essentially substantiated Cummins⿿ (1978) Interdependence Hypothesis, and Kellogg's (1990) Overload hypothesis while laying a great stress on the rate of lexical retrieval for improvement of writing expertise.
Keywords: Task complexity; Cognitive writing processes; Text quality; Writing expertise; L1 &amp; L2 writing; Lexical retrieval

Geir Solskinnsbakk, Jon Atle Gulla, Combining ontological profiles with context in information retrieval, Data & Knowledge Engineering, Volume 69, Issue 3, March 2010, Pages 251-260, ISSN 0169-023X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2009.10.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X09001487)
Abstract: An ontology is a formal conceptualization of a domain, specifying the concepts of the domain and the relations between them. It is however not a straight forward task to use this knowledge for information retrieval purposes. In this paper we describe the concept of an ontological profile, which is a semantic extension of an ontology where each ontology concept is given a description in terms of a vector of weighted keywords. An experiment has been conducted with a prototype search engine using ontological profiles for query expansion. The evaluation shows encouraging results compared to standard keyword based search. Furthermore, we describe the notion of context in an information retrieval setting and address how we can combine semantics and context in search based on query expansion.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Ontologies; Ontological profiles; Context

Nguyen Anh Tu, Dong-Luong Dinh, Mostofa Kamal Rasel, Young-Koo Lee, Topic modeling and improvement of image representation for large-scale image retrieval, Information Sciences, Volume 366, 20 October 2016, Pages 99-120, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2016.05.029.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S002002551630353X)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we present a new visual search system for finding similar images in a large database. However, there are a number of challenges regarding the robustness of the image representations and the efficiency of the retrieval framework. To tackle these challenges, we first propose an encoding technique based on soft-assignment of local features to convert an entire image into a single vector, which is a compact and discriminative representation. This encoded vector is suitable for most types of efficient indexing methods to produce an initial result. To compensate for the lack of incorporating geometric and object-related information during the encoding scheme, we then propose a probabilistic topic model to formalize the spatial structure among the local features. Moreover, the topic model allows us to effectively extract the object and background regions from the image. This is performed by a Markov Chain Monte Carlo algorithm for approximate inference. Finally, benefiting from the extracted objects in each image, we present a re-ranking scheme to automatically refine the initial search results. Our proposed retrieval framework has two major advantages: i) an aggregation strategy through soft-assignment improves the discriminative power of the representation, which has a determinative effect on the retrieval precision; and ii) the probabilistic latent topic model enables us to not only gain insight into the spatial structure of the image, but also handle a large variation in the object appearance. The experimental results from four benchmark datasets show that our approach provides competitive accuracy, and runs about ten times faster. Our studies also verify that proposed approach works effectively on large-scale databases of millions of images.
Keywords: Topic modeling; Probabilistic graphical model; Image retrieval; Image representation; Image coding; Bag-of-visual words

Ma Xiaofeng, Yang Xiao-e, Li Yanru, Zhou AiBao, Prior knowledge level dissociates effects of retrieval practice and elaboration, Learning and Individual Differences, Volume 51, October 2016, Pages 210-214, ISSN 1041-6080, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lindif.2016.09.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S104160801630214X)
Abstract: Abstract
Prior knowledge level varies between individuals and influences the effectiveness of learning strategies. This study tested the influence of prior knowledge level on effects of retrieval practice and elaboration. Psychology major students (more familiarity with psychology key terms) and non-psychology major students (less familiarity with psychology key terms) learned five lists of psychology key terms under three conditions: retrieval practice, elaboration, and control. The result revealed an interaction between prior knowledge level and learning strategy. There was no significant difference in proportion of final recall between psychology major students and non-psychology major students in the retrieval practice condition, but proportion of final recall was notably higher in psychology major students than non-psychology major students in the elaboration condition. Therefore, prior knowledge level influenced effects of retrieval practice and elaboration due to differences in their underlying mechanisms, supporting the episodic context account.
Keywords: Prior knowledge level; Retrieval practice; Elaboration; Episodic context account

Thomas Lidy, Carlos N. Silla Jr., Olmo Cornelis, Fabien Gouyon, Andreas Rauber, Celso A.A. Kaestner, Alessandro L. Koerich, On the suitability of state-of-the-art music information retrieval methods for analyzing, categorizing and accessing non-Western and ethnic music collections, Signal Processing, Volume 90, Issue 4, April 2010, Pages 1032-1048, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2009.09.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168409004058)
Abstract: With increasing amounts of music being available in digital form, research in music information retrieval has turned into a dominant field to support organization of and easy access to large collections of music. Yet, most research is focussed traditionally on Western music, mostly in the form of mastered studio recordings. This leaves the question whether current music information retrieval approaches can also be applied to collections of non-Western and in particular ethnic music with completely different characteristics and requirements.

In this work we analyze the performance of a range of automatic audio description algorithms on three music databases with distinct characteristics, specifically a Western music collection used previously in research benchmarks, a collection of Latin American music with roots in Latin American culture, but following Western tonality principles, as well as a collection of field recordings of ethnic African music. The study quantitatively shows the advantages and shortcomings of different feature representations extracted from music on the basis of classification tasks, and presents an approach to visualize, access and interact with ethnic music collections in a structured way.
Keywords: Ethnic music; Latin music; Non-Western music; Audio analysis; Music information retrieval; Classification; Access; Self-organizing map

Manisha Bhandarkar, Harish Masand, Aveg Kumar, Kirit Patel, Jasraj Dhongde, Hitesh Gulati, Kirti Mahajan, Hitesh Chudasama, Subrata Pradhan, Archiving and retrieval of experimental data using SAN based centralized storage system for SST-1, Fusion Engineering and Design, Volume 112, 15 November 2016, Pages 991-994, ISSN 0920-3796, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fusengdes.2016.05.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920379616303775)
Abstract: Abstract
SAN (Storage Area Network, a high-speed, block level storage device) based centralized data storage system of SST-1 (Steady State superconducting Tokamak) has envisaged to address the need of availability of SST-1 operation &amp; experimental data centrally for archival as well as retrieval [2]. Considering the initial data volume requirement, ∼10 TB (Terabytes) capacity of SAN based data storage system has configured/installed with optical fiber backbone with compatibility considerations of existing Ethernet network of SST-1.

The SAN based data storage system has been designed/configured with 3-tiered architecture and GFS (Global File System) cluster file system with multipath support. Tier-1 is of ∼3 TB (frequent access and low data storage capacity) comprises of Fiber channel (FC) based hard disks for optimum throughput. Tier-2 is of ∼6 TB (less frequent access and high data storage capacity) comprises of SATA based hard disks. Tier-3 will be planned later to store offline historical data. In the SAN configuration two tightly coupled storage servers (with cluster configuration) are working together to achieve increase performance, reliability, distribute workload and provides access to the files from any server regardless of the physical location of the file. Different RAID (Redundant Array of Independent Disks) groups are created with both, FC and SATA hard disks to increase reliability, security and performance of the storage system.

The adopted SAN based data storage for SST-1 is a modular, robust, and allows future expandability. The storage modules can be added as and when required without changing the existing storage architecture. The data read/write time of the configured system is adequate enough to cater the present throughput requirements of individual subsystems. Sufficient redundancy in terms of hardware has been incorporated to assure the uninterrupted experimental data availability 24 × 7 within intranet. The installed storage system can be expanded up to ∼100 TB of capacity with the existing controller pair presents in the SAN configuration.
Keywords: Storage area network; GFS; RAID; Tiered storage; Archival; Retrieval

Daniel Carlos Guimarães Pedronette, Ricardo da S. Torres, A correlation graph approach for unsupervised manifold learning in image retrieval tasks, Neurocomputing, Volume 208, 5 October 2016, Pages 66-79, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.03.081.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216304726)
Abstract: Abstract
Effectively measuring the similarity among images is a challenging problem in image retrieval tasks due to the difficulty of considering the dataset manifold. This paper presents an unsupervised manifold learning algorithm that takes into account the intrinsic dataset geometry for defining a more effective distance among images. The dataset structure is modeled in terms of a Correlation Graph (CG) and analyzed using Strongly Connected Components (SCCs). While the Correlation Graph adjacency provides a precise but strict similarity relationship, the Strongly Connected Components analysis expands these relationships considering the dataset geometry. A large and rigorous experimental evaluation protocol was conducted for different image retrieval tasks. The experiments were conducted in different datasets involving various image descriptors. Results demonstrate that the manifold learning algorithm can significantly improve the effectiveness of image retrieval systems. The presented approach yields better results in terms of effectiveness than various methods recently proposed in the literature.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Unsupervised manifold learning; Correlation graph; Strongly connected components

Kehua Guo, Ruifang Zhang, Zhurong Zhou, Yayuan Tang, Li Kuang, Combined retrieval: A convenient and precise approach for Internet image retrieval, Information Sciences, Volumes 358–359, 1 September 2016, Pages 151-163, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2016.04.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025516302304)
Abstract: Abstract
In Internet image retrieval, returned results may fail to satisfy the retrieval intentions of users because of noisy annotations. Solving the ambiguity in image retrieval by combining text features and visual information has been a challenging problem. In this paper, we propose a convenient and precise approach for Internet image retrieval called combined retrieval (CR), which costs minimized extra feedback to retrieve more results reflecting the query intentions of users. CR is used as a plug-in to commercial image search engines, such as Google and Bing, which are defined as host image search engines (HISE). First, in the returned result from HISE, document analysis is utilized to construct the image categories based on the Wikipedia categorical index. Returned images will be automatically categorized, and a convenient interface is provided for user feedback. Second, we describe the re-retrieval algorithm in which image data combined with particular text information will be sent to the HISE for re-retrieval. Finally, a perceptual hash based re-rank algorithm to optimize the returned images is proposed. Experimental results indicate that CR can significantly improve the retrieval performance with minimum effort and can provide a notably convenient user experience.
Keywords: Internet image retrieval; Retrieval intention; User experience; Perceptual hash; Image search engine

Ming-Yen Chen, Hui-Chuan Chu, Yuh-Min Chen, Developing a semantic-enable information retrieval mechanism, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 37, Issue 1, January 2010, Pages 322-340, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2009.05.055.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417409005016)
Abstract: The existing information retrieval systems are mostly keyword-based and retrieve relevant documents or information by matching keywords. Keyword-based search, in spite of its merits of expedient query for information and ease-of-use, has failed to represent the complete semantics contained in the content and has let to the retrieval failure. In a textual content, the author’s intention is represented in a semantic format of various combinations of word–word relations that are comprehensible to human beings. Query constructed by descriptions in natural language best reflects querist’s intention. This study developed a semantic-enable information retrieval mechanism that handles the processing, recognition, extraction, extensions and matching of content semantics to achieve the following objectives: (1) to analyze and determine the semantic features of content, to develop a semantic pattern that represents semantic features of the content, and to structuralize and materialize semantic features; (2) to analyze user’s query and extend its implied semantics through semantic extension so as to identify more semantic features for matching; and (3) to generate contents with approximate semantics by matching against the extended query to provide correct contents to the querist. This mechanism is capable of improving the traditional problem of keyword search and enables the user to perform a semantic-based query and search for the required information, thereby improving the reusing and sharing of information.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Semantic extraction; Query extension; Query matching

Olmo Cornelis, Micheline Lesaffre, Dirk Moelants, Marc Leman, Access to ethnic music: Advances and perspectives in content-based music information retrieval, Signal Processing, Volume 90, Issue 4, April 2010, Pages 1008-1031, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2009.06.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168409002874)
Abstract: Access to digital music collections is nowadays facilitated by content-based methods that allow the retrieval of music on the basis of intrinsic properties of audio, in addition to advanced metadata processing. However, access to ethnic music remains problematic, as this music does not always correspond to the Western concepts that underlie the currently available content-based methods. In this paper, we examine the literature on access to ethnic music, while focusing on the reasons why the existing techniques fail or fall short of expectations and what can be done about it. The paper considers a review of the work on signals and feature extraction, on symbolic and semantic information processing, and on metadata and context tools. An overview is given of several European ethnic music archives and related ongoing research projects. Problems are highlighted and suggestions of the ways in which to improve access to ethnic music collections are given.
Keywords: Ethnomusicology; Music information retrieval; Access; Music archives

Klara Stokes, Maria Bras-Amorós, Optimal configurations for peer-to-peer user-private information retrieval, Computers & Mathematics with Applications, Volume 59, Issue 4, February 2010, Pages 1568-1577, ISSN 0898-1221, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.camwa.2010.01.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0898122110000143)
Abstract: User-private information retrieval systems should protect the user’s anonymity when performing queries against a database, or they should limit the servers capacity of profiling users. Peer-to-peer user-private information retrieval (P2P UPIR) supplies a practical solution: the users in a group help each other in doing their queries, thereby preserving their privacy without any need of the database to cooperate. One way to implement the P2P UPIR uses combinatoric configurations to administrate the keys needed for the private communication between the peers.

This article is devoted to the choice of the configuration in this system. First of all we characterize the optimal configurations for the P2P UPIR and see the relationship with the projective planes as described in finite geometry. Then we give a very efficient construction of such optimal configurations, i.e. finite projective planes. We finally check that the involved graphs are Ramanujan graphs, giving an additional justification of the optimality of the constructed configurations.
Keywords: Combinatoric configurations; Private information retrieval; Projective plane; Ramanujan graphs; Expander graphs

Marita Koivunen, Maritta Välimäki, Heli Hätönen, Nurses’ information retrieval skills in psychiatric hospitals – Are the requirements for evidence-based practice fulfilled?, Nurse Education in Practice, Volume 10, Issue 1, January 2010, Pages 27-31, ISSN 1471-5953, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nepr.2009.03.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1471595309000560)
Abstract: Summary
Nursing professionals have long recognized the importance to practice of research and the value of research evidence. Nurses still do not use research findings in practice. The purpose of this paper was to describe nurses’ skills in using literature databases and the Internet in psychiatric hospitals and associations of nurses’ gender, age, and job position with their information retrieval skills. The study was carried out in 2004 among nursing staff (N = 183) on nine acute psychiatric wards in two psychiatric hospitals in Finland (n = 180, response rate 98%). The Finnish version of the European Computer Driving Licence test (ECDL) was used as a data collection instrument. The study showed that there were clear deficits in information retrieval skills among nurses working in psychiatric hospitals. Thus, nurses’ competence does not support the realization of evidence-based practice in the hospitals. Therefore, it is important to increase nurses’ information retrieval skills by tailoring continuing education modules. It would be also advisable to develop centralized systems for the internal dissemination of research findings for the use of nursing staff.
Keywords: Evidence-based practice; Information retrieval; Information technology

Shuaiqiang Wang, Jun Ma, Qiang He, An immune programming-based ranking function discovery approach for effective information retrieval, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 37, Issue 8, August 2010, Pages 5863-5871, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2010.02.019.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417410000588)
Abstract: In this paper, we propose RankIP, the first immune programming (IP) based ranking function discovery approach. IP is a novel evolution based machine learning algorithm with the principles of immune systems, which is verified to be superior to Genetic Programming (GP) on the convergence of algorithm according to their experimental results in Musilek et al. (2006).

However, such superiority of IP is mainly demonstrated for optimization problems. RankIP adapts IP to the learning to rank problem, a typical classification problem. In doing this, the solution representation, affinity function, and high-affinity antibody selection require completely different treatments. Besides, two formulae focusing on selecting best antibody for test are designed for learning to rank.

Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed RankIP outperforms the state-of-the-art learning-based ranking methods significantly in terms of P @ n , MAP and NDCG @ n .
Keywords: Information retrieval; Learning to rank; Immune programming; Evolutionary computation; Machine learning

C. Ellis, K. Morley, (1088) - The ERO Form: The European Retrieval of Organs Initiative to Standardise Essential Information, The Journal of Heart and Lung Transplantation, Volume 36, Issue 4, Supplement, April 2017, Page S356, ISSN 1053-2498, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.healun.2017.01.1000.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053249817310252)

Hang Cheng, Xinpeng Zhang, Jiang Yu, Yuan Zhang, Encrypted JPEG image retrieval using block-wise feature comparison, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 40, Part A, October 2016, Pages 111-117, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2016.06.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320316301080)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper proposes a novel scheme for encrypted JPEG image retrieval, which includes image encryption and retrieval phases. Using the scheme, the content owner encrypts JPEG images by jointly applying permutation cipher and stream cipher to their corresponding bit-streams, and then transmits encrypted versions to a database server. With an encrypted query image, although the server learns nothing about the plaintext content, it may extract local statistical feature of intra-block AC coefficients using a new feature descriptor. Subsequently, exploiting block-wise feature comparison, the server can measure the similarity between encrypted query image and database image. After that, the encrypted images with plaintext content similar to the query image are returned to the authorized user. Experimental results show that the proposed scheme can ensure both format compliance and file size preservation while providing effective retrieval service in encrypted domain.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Image encryption; JPEG image; Feature descriptor

Yongsheng Zhang, Tsuyoshi Yamamoto, Yoshinori Dobashi, Multi-scale object retrieval via learning on graph from multimodal data, Neurocomputing, Volume 207, 26 September 2016, Pages 684-692, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.05.053.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216304908)
Abstract: Abstract
Object retrieval has attracted much research attention in recent years. Confronting object retrieval, how to estimate the relevance among objects is a challenging task. In this paper, we focus on view-based object retrieval and propose a multi-scale object retrieval algorithm via learning on graph from multimodal data. In our work, shape features are extracted from each view of objects. The relevance among objects is formulated in a hypergraph structure, where the distance of different views in the feature space is employed to generate the connection in the hypergraph. To achieve better representation performance, we propose a multi-scale hypergraph structure to model object correlations. The learning on graph is conducted to estimate the optimal relevance among these objects, which are used for object retrieval. To evaluate the performance of the proposed method, we conduct experiments on the National Taiwan University dataset and the ETH dataset. Experimental results and comparisons with the state-of-the-art methods demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Keywords: Object retrieval; Multi-scale; Learning on graph; Multimodal data

Ruben Fernandez-Beltran, Filiberto Pla, Incremental probabilistic Latent Semantic Analysis for video retrieval, Image and Vision Computing, Volume 38, June 2015, Pages 1-12, ISSN 0262-8856, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.imavis.2015.02.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0262885615000335)
Abstract: Abstract
Recent research trends in Content-based Video Retrieval have shown topic models as an effective tool to deal with the semantic gap challenge. In this scenario, this paper has a dual target: (1) it is aimed at studying how the use of different topic models (pLSA, LDA and FSTM) affects video retrieval performance; (2) a novel incremental topic model (IpLSA) is presented in order to cope with incremental scenarios in an effective and efficient way. A comprehensive comparison among these four topic models using two different retrieval systems and two reference benchmarking video databases is provided. Experiments revealed that pLSA is the best model in sparse conditions, LDA tend to outperform the rest of the models in a dense space and IpLSA is able to work properly in both cases.
Keywords: Content-based Video Retrieval; Latent topics; probabilistic Latent Semantic Analysis (pLSA); Relevance Feedback; Information retrieval

Shuhan Qi, Peiguang Jing, Xuan Wang, Liqiang Nie, Quality biased multimedia data retrieval in microblogs, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 40, Part B, October 2016, Pages 838-846, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2016.08.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320316301742)
Abstract: Abstract
With the rapid development of social media platforms, huge amount of user generated contents (UGC) are generated ceaselessly. In recent years, content based microblog retrieval has attracted extensive research attention. Effective microblog retrieval services complex analysis of short text and multimedia contents. In this paper, we present a quality biased multimedia microblog retrieval framework. First, we develop an anchor graph based multiview embedding framework which maps the multimedia content features into a unified latent space. Then, the content matching scores of testing microblogs related to the query are obtained by a Markov random field. Further, we employ an quality model to incorporate both microblog quality and content matching. As compared with the state-of-art methods, experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Keywords: Microblog retrieval; Quality model; Multiview embedding

Yong-Ming Huang, Tien-Chi Huang, Yueh-Min Huang, Applying an intelligent notification mechanism to blogging systems utilizing a genetic-based information retrieval approach, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 37, Issue 1, January 2010, Pages 705-715, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2009.05.094.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417409005375)
Abstract: Blogging systems have received a lot of attention in recent years due to their wide spectrum of applications. The comment function is a significant part of a blog application, which can be used to gather the readers’ feedback and produce social interactions with them. However, most of the existing blogging systems only provide simple comment notification mechanisms for bloggers. Since a popular blog may receive thousands of comments in a short period of time, it is almost impossible for the notification mechanism to inform the blogger about every comment, even meaningful ones. In this paper, we propose a Two-stage Intelligent Notification Mechanism (TINM) for blogging systems to carry out intelligent comment notification, so that the blogger only receives meaningful comments. To reduce the computation cost in the keyword retrieval, a Genetic-based Information Retrieval Approach (GIRA) was designed. Experimental results show that the proposed approach reduces the computation cost during keyword retrieval, and still leads to near optimal results.
Keywords: Blog comment; Intelligent notification mechanism; Genetic algorithm; Information retrieval

Giovanni Maria Farinella, Dario Allegra, Marco Moltisanti, Filippo Stanco, Sebastiano Battiato, Retrieval and classification of food images, Computers in Biology and Medicine, Volume 77, 1 October 2016, Pages 23-39, ISSN 0010-4825, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compbiomed.2016.07.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010482516301822)
Abstract: Abstract
Automatic food understanding from images is an interesting challenge with applications in different domains. In particular, food intake monitoring is becoming more and more important because of the key role that it plays in health and market economies. In this paper, we address the study of food image processing from the perspective of Computer Vision. As first contribution we present a survey of the studies in the context of food image processing from the early attempts to the current state-of-the-art methods. Since retrieval and classification engines able to work on food images are required to build automatic systems for diet monitoring (e.g., to be embedded in wearable cameras), we focus our attention on the aspect of the representation of the food images because it plays a fundamental role in the understanding engines. The food retrieval and classification is a challenging task since the food presents high variableness and an intrinsic deformability. To properly study the peculiarities of different image representations we propose the UNICT-FD1200 dataset. It was composed of 4754 food images of 1200 distinct dishes acquired during real meals. Each food plate is acquired multiple times and the overall dataset presents both geometric and photometric variabilities. The images of the dataset have been manually labeled considering 8 categories: Appetizer, Main Course, Second Course, Single Course, Side Dish, Dessert, Breakfast, Fruit. We have performed tests employing different representations of the state-of-the-art to assess the related performances on the UNICT-FD1200 dataset. Finally, we propose a new representation based on the perceptual concept of Anti-Textons which is able to encode spatial information between Textons outperforming other representations in the context of food retrieval and Classification.
Keywords: Food retrieval; Food classification; Food representation; Textons; Anti-Textons

Kenji W. Koyano, Masaki Takeda, Teppei Matsui, Toshiyuki Hirabayashi, Yohei Ohashi, Yasushi Miyashita, Laminar Module Cascade from Layer 5 to 6 Implementing Cue-to-Target Conversion for Object Memory Retrieval in the Primate Temporal Cortex, Neuron, Volume 92, Issue 2, 19 October 2016, Pages 518-529, ISSN 0896-6273, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2016.09.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627316305839)
Abstract: Summary
The cerebral cortex computes through the canonical microcircuit that connects six stacked layers; however, how cortical processing streams operate in vivo, particularly in the higher association cortex, remains elusive. By developing a novel MRI-assisted procedure that reliably localizes recorded single neurons at resolution of six individual layers in monkey temporal cortex, we show that transformation of representations from a cued object to a to-be-recalled object occurs at the infragranular layer in a visual cued-recall task. This cue-to-target conversion started in layer 5 and was followed by layer 6. Finally, a subset of layer 6 neurons exclusively encoding the sought target became phase-locked to surrounding field potentials at theta frequency, suggesting that this coordinated cell assembly implements cortical long-distance outputs of the recalled target. Thus, this study proposes a link from local computation spanning laminar modules of the temporal cortex to the brain-wide network for memory retrieval in primates.
Keywords: monkey; temporal cortex; MRI; memory retrieval; cortical layer; microcircuit; laminar localization

Feng Zhao, Zheng Sun, Hai Jin, Topic-centric and semantic-aware retrieval system for internet of things, Information Fusion, Volume 23, May 2015, Pages 33-42, ISSN 1566-2535, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2014.01.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1566253514000062)
Abstract: Abstract
The Internet of things (IoT) has been considered as one of the promising paradigms that can allow people and objects to seamlessly interact. So far, numerous applications and services have been proposed, such as retrieval service. The retrieval, however, faces a big challenge in IoT because the data belongs to different domains and user interaction with the surrounding environment is constrained. This paper proposes Acrost, a retrieval system based on topic discovery and semantic awareness in IoT environment. The initial contents with interesting information is obtained through the combination of two topic centric collectors. The metadata is extracted by aggregating regular expression-based and conditional random fields-based approaches. Moreover, the semantic-aware retrieval is achieved by parsing the query and ranking the relevance of contents. In addition, we present a case study on academic conference retrieval to validate the proposed approaches. Experimental results show that the proposed system can significantly improve the response time and efficiency of topic self-adaptive retrieval manner.
Keywords: Internet of things; Information retrieval; Knowledge network; Topic centric; Semantic awareness

A. Guillaume, E. Schuller-Dufour, V. Faitot, O. Pirrello, C. Rongières, J. Ohl, I. Nisand, K. Bettahar, Anesthésie topique par gel de lidocaïne intravaginal pour ponction ovocytaire : retour d’expérience, Journal de Gynécologie Obstétrique et Biologie de la Reproduction, Volume 45, Issue 8, October 2016, Pages 942-947, ISSN 0368-2315, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jgyn.2016.05.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0368231516300382)
Abstract: Summary
A recent adverse effect of a paracervical block (cardiac arrest) occurred during an oocyte retrieval (OR), forcing us to reconsider our pain management during OR. Since then, we decided to use intravaginal lidocaine gel as analgesia during OR.
Objectives
To evaluate the pain during OR after intravaginal lidocaine gel analgesia and to evaluate the motivations of women choosing this technique.
Methods
A monocentric observational study was performed on 200 patients. Pain was measured using a numeric pain scale during and after oocyte retrieval. The tolerance of the procedure was evaluated through a patient questionnaire.
Results
Median maximal pain was 5 ± 2.3 (0–10) per-retrieval and 3 ± 2.2 (0–10) post-retrieval. The procedure was considered bearable by 85.5% of the patients and 81.5% of them would choose this method in case of new oocyte retrieval. No adverse effect occurred during the study.
Conclusion
The use of intravaginal lidocaine gel seems an acceptable analgesia alternative during oocyte retrieval.
Mots clés: ésAnalgésie; Gel de lidocaine; Ponction ovocytaire; Analgesia; Lidocaine gel; Oocyte retrieval

Xinggang Wang, Xiong Duan, Xiang Bai, Deep sketch feature for cross-domain image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 207, 26 September 2016, Pages 387-397, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.04.046.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216303198)
Abstract: Abstract
Deep learning has been proven to be very effective for various image recognition tasks, e.g., image classification, semantic segmentation, image retrieval, shape classification, etc. However, existing works on deep learning for image recognition mainly focus on either natural image data or binary shape data. In this paper, we show that deep convolutional neural networks (DCNN) is also suitable for cross-domain image recognition, i.e., using sketch as query to retrieve natural images in a large dataset. To solve this kind of cross-domain problem, we propose to train CNN jointly using image data and sketch data in a novel way. The learned deep feature is effective for cross-domain image retrieval – using simple Euclidean distance on the learned feature can significantly outperform the previous state-of-the-arts. In addition, we find that pre-training and a feasible data-argumentation for DCNN can largely surpass human-level performance in the standard sketch classification benchmark.
Keywords: Sketch recognition; Image retrieval; Deep learning

David Rebollo-Monedero, Jordi Forné, Agusti Solanas, Antoni Martínez-Ballesté, Private location-based information retrieval through user collaboration, Computer Communications, Volume 33, Issue 6, 15 April 2010, Pages 762-774, ISSN 0140-3664, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2009.11.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140366409003259)
Abstract: Privacy and security are paramount in the proper deployment of location-based services (LBSs). We present a novel protocol based on user collaboration to privately retrieve location-based information from an LBS provider. Our approach does not assume that users or providers can be completely trusted with regard to privacy, and does not rely on a trusted third party. In addition, user queries, containing accurate locations, remain unchanged, and the collaborative protocol does not impose any special requirements on the query–response function of the LBS. Our protocol is analyzed in terms of privacy, network traffic, and processing overhead. We define the concept of guaranteed privacy breach probability, and we show that our proposal provides exponential scalability in that probability, at the expense of a linear relative network cost.
Keywords: Location-based services; Private information retrieval; Location privacy; Trusted third parties; Untrusted user collaboration

Jun Li, Chang Xu, Mingming Gong, Junliang Xing, Wankou Yang, Changyin Sun, SERVE: Soft and Equalized Residual VEctors for image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 207, 26 September 2016, Pages 202-212, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.04.047.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216303253)
Abstract: Abstract
In the last decade, a wide variety of image signatures, e.g., Bag-of-Visual-Words (BOVW), Fisher Vector (FV), and Vector of Locally Aggregated Descriptor (VLAD), have been developed for effective image retrieval. These image signatures, however, are either computationally expensive or simplified for the purpose of trading accuracy for efficiency. To simultaneously guarantee efficiency and effectiveness, we propose a novel image signature termed Soft and Equalized Residual VEctors (SERVE) which is more discriminatively formulated and maintains higher accuracy. It improves VLAD by encoding the variability in within-cluster feature points into the summation of Residual Vectors (RV) while manifesting superiority in computational efficiency over FV. To find the latent low-dimensional manifolds underlying in the SERVE feature space, we propose to partition the original feature space into separate subspaces by random projections and employ multi-graph embedding to obtain additional performance gain. In particular, we make use of two fusion strategies for graph ensemble to generate a holistic representation. Extensive empirical studies carried out on the three retrieval-specific public benchmarks reveal that our method outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods and provides a promising paradigm for the image retrieval task.
Keywords: SERVE; Manifolds; Multi-graph embedding; Graph ensemble; Image retrieval

Esther de Ves, Xaro Benavent, Inmacula Coma, Guillermo Ayala, A novel dynamic multi-model relevance feedback procedure for content-based image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 208, 5 October 2016, Pages 99-107, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.02.073.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216304751)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper deals with the problem of image retrieval in large databases with a big semantic gap by a relevance feedback procedure. We present a novel algorithm for modelling the users׳s preferences in the content-based image retrieval system.

The proposed algorithm considers the probability of an image belonging to the set of those sought by the user, and estimates the parameters of several local logistic regression models whose inputs are the low-level image features. A Principal Component Analysis method is applied to the original vector to reduce its high dimensionality. The relevance probabilities predicted by these local models are combined by means of a weighted average. These weights are obtained according to the variance explained by the group of principal components used for each local model. These models are dynamically estimated in each iteration of the relevance feedback algorithm until the user is satisfied.

This novel procedure has been tested in a collection with a large semantic gap, the Wikipedia collection. Two types of experiments have been performed, one with an automatic user and another with a typical user. The method is compared to some recent similar approaches in literature, obtaining very good performance in terms of the MAP evaluation measure.
Keywords: Semantic Gap; Principal Component Analysis; Multimedia Retrieval; Relevance feedback

Yuanfeng He, Yuanxi Li, Jiajia Lei, C.H.C Leung, A framework of query expansion for image retrieval based on knowledge base and concept similarity, Neurocomputing, Volume 204, 5 September 2016, Pages 26-32, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.11.102.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216300972)
Abstract: Abstract
We study several semantic concept-based query expansion and re-ranking scheme and compare different ontology-based expansion methods in image search and retrieval. To improve the query expansion efficiency and accuracy, we employ the CYC knowledge base to generate the expansion candidate concepts, while filter and rank the expansion results by calculating concept similarities using the Semantic Relatedness Metrics. Using our knowledge-based query expansion in image retrieval, the efficiency and accuracy has been improved.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Knowledge base; Query expansion

Hrishikesh Bhaumik, Siddhartha Bhattacharyya, Mausumi Das Nath, Susanta Chakraborty, Hybrid soft computing approaches to content based video retrieval: A brief review, Applied Soft Computing, Volume 46, September 2016, Pages 1008-1029, ISSN 1568-4946, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2016.03.022.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494616301314)
Abstract: Abstract
There has been an unrestrained growth of videos on the Internet due to proliferation of multimedia devices. These videos are mostly stored in unstructured repositories which pose enormous challenges for the task of both image and video retrieval. Users aim to retrieve videos of interest having content which is relevant to their need. Traditionally, low-level visual features have been used for content based video retrieval (CBVR). Consequently, a gap existed between these low-level features and the high level semantic content. The semantic differential was partially bridged by proliferation of research on interest point detectors and descriptors, which represented mid-level features of the content. The computational time and human interaction involved in the classical approaches for CBVR are quite cumbersome. In order to increase the accuracy, efficiency and effectiveness of the retrieval process, researchers resorted to soft computing paradigms. The entire retrieval task was automated to a great extent using individual soft computing components. Due to voluminous growth in the size of multimedia databases, augmented by an exponential rise in the number of users, integration of two or more soft computing techniques was desirable for enhanced efficiency and accuracy of the retrieval process. The hybrid approaches serve to enhance the overall performance and robustness of the system with reduced human interference. This article is targeted to focus on the relevant hybrid soft computing techniques which are in practice for content-based image and video retrieval.
Keywords: Content-based video retrieval; Video segmentation; Soft computing; Hybrid soft computing

Yo-Ping Huang, Shin-Liang Lai, Frode Eika Sandnes, A repeating pattern based Query-by-Humming fuzzy system for polyphonic melody retrieval, Applied Soft Computing, Volume 33, August 2015, Pages 197-206, ISSN 1568-4946, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2015.04.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494615002252)
Abstract: Abstract
Query-by-Humming involves retrieving music with a melody that matches the hummed query. An improved Query-by-Humming system for extracting pitch contour information based on a fuzzy inference model is introduced. In addition, an improved content-based music repeating pattern extraction model is introduced. Our bar-indexing method can extract the melody, identify repeating patterns and handle polyphonic MIDI files. To verify the effectiveness of the system, 15 volunteers recorded queries that were fed as input to the system and the longest common subsequence (LCS) was used to identify the most related top N matches. The system achieves 70% accuracy among the top 5 items retrieved.
Keywords: Fuzzy inference system; Content-based music information retrieval; Query-by-Humming; Repeating pattern; Pitch contour

Cesar A. Sciammarella, Luciano Lamberti, Mathematical models utilized in the retrieval of displacement information encoded in fringe patterns, Optics and Lasers in Engineering, Volume 77, February 2016, Pages 100-111, ISSN 0143-8166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optlaseng.2015.07.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S014381661500189X)
Abstract: Abstract
All the techniques that measure displacements, whether in the range of visible optics or any other form of field methods, require the presence of a carrier signal. A carrier signal is a wave form modulated (modified) by an input, deformation of the medium. A carrier is tagged to the medium under analysis and deforms with the medium. The wave form must be known both in the unmodulated and the modulated conditions. There are two basic mathematical models that can be utilized to decode the information contained in the carrier, phase modulation or frequency modulation, both are closely connected. Basic problems connected to the detection and recovery of displacement information that are common to all optical techniques will be analyzed in this paper, focusing on the general theory common to all the methods independently of the type of signal utilized. The aspects discussed are those that have practical impact in the process of data gathering and data processing.
Keywords: Fringe pattern analysis; Basic mathematical models for detection and recovery of displacements; Phase and amplitude modulation; Hilbert transform; Multiphase methods and in-quadrature signals analysis

Felipe Doria, Rubem Erichsen Jr., Mario González, Francisco B. Rodríguez, Ángel Sánchez, David Dominguez, Structured patterns retrieval using a metric attractor network: Application to fingerprint recognition, Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, Volume 457, 1 September 2016, Pages 424-436, ISSN 0378-4371, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2016.03.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437116002685)
Abstract: Abstract
The ability of a metric attractor neural networks (MANN) to learn structured patterns is analyzed. In particular we consider collections of fingerprints, which present some local features, rather than being modeled by random patterns. The network retrieval proved to be robust to varying the pattern activity, the threshold strategy, the topological arrangement of the connections, and for several types of noisy configuration. We found that the lower the fingerprint patterns activity is, the higher the load ratio and retrieval quality are. A simplified theoretical framework, for the unbiased case, is developed as a function of five parameters: the load ratio, the finiteness connectivity, the density degree of the network, randomness ratio, and the spatial pattern correlation. Linked to the latter appears a new neural dynamics variable: the spatial neural correlation. The theory agrees quite well with the experimental results.
Keywords: Attractor network; Small-world; Fingerprint retrieval; Neurodynamics; Structured patterns

Zhuotun Zhu, Xinggang Wang, Song Bai, Cong Yao, Xiang Bai, Deep Learning Representation using Autoencoder for 3D Shape Retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 204, 5 September 2016, Pages 41-50, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.08.127.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216301047)
Abstract: Abstract
We study the problem of how to build a deep learning representation for 3D shape. Deep learning has shown to be very effective in variety of visual applications, such as image classification and object detection. However, it has not been successfully applied to 3D shape recognition. This is because 3D shape has complex structure in 3D space and there are limited number of 3D shapes for feature learning. To address these problems, we project 3D shapes into 2D space and use autoencoder for feature learning on the 2D images. High accuracy 3D shape retrieval performance is obtained by aggregating the features learned on 2D images. In addition, we show the proposed deep learning feature is complementary to conventional local image descriptors. By combing the global deep learning representation and the local descriptor representation, our method can obtain the state-of-the-art performance on 3D shape retrieval benchmarks.
Keywords: 3D Shape Matching; 3D Shape Retrieval; Autoencoder; Shape Representation

Marianne de Chastelaine, Julia T. Mattson, Tracy H. Wang, Brian E. Donley, Michael D. Rugg, The neural correlates of recollection and retrieval monitoring: Relationships with age and recollection performance, NeuroImage, Volume 138, September 2016, Pages 164-175, ISSN 1053-8119, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2016.04.071.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811916301227)
Abstract: Abstract
The relationships between age, retrieval-related neural activity, and episodic memory performance were investigated in samples of young (18–29 yrs), middle-aged (43–55 yrs) and older (63–76 yrs) healthy adults. Participants underwent fMRI scanning during an associative recognition test that followed a study task performed on visually presented word pairs. Test items comprised pairs of intact (studied pairs), rearranged (items studied on different trials) and new words. fMRI recollection effects were operationalized as greater activity for studied pairs correctly endorsed as intact than for pairs incorrectly endorsed as rearranged. The reverse contrast was employed to identify retrieval monitoring effects. Robust recollection effects were identified in the core recollection network, comprising the hippocampus, along with parahippocampal and posterior cingulate cortex, left angular gyrus and medial prefrontal cortex. Retrieval monitoring effects were identified in the anterior cingulate and right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Neither recollection effects within the core network, nor the monitoring effects differed significantly across the age groups after controlling for individual differences in associative recognition performance. Whole brain analyses did however identify three clusters outside of these regions where recollection effects were greater in the young than in the other age groups. Across-participant regression analyses indicated that the magnitude of hippocampal and medial prefrontal cortex recollection effects, and both of the prefrontal monitoring effects, correlated significantly with memory performance. None of these correlations were moderated by age. The findings suggest that the relationships between memory performance and functional activity in regions consistently implicated in successful recollection and retrieval monitoring are stable across much of the healthy adult lifespan.
Keywords: Aging; Core recollection network; Episodic memory; Retrieval; Associative recognition; fMRI

Peng Tang, Siu Cheung Hui, Alvis C.M. Fong, A lattice-based approach for chemical structural retrieval, Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, Volume 39, March 2015, Pages 215-222, ISSN 0952-1976, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2014.12.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S095219761400298X)
Abstract: Abstract
Searching for chemical structures with similar structural and functional information of organic chemicals is an important part of the drug discovery process. However, the current chemical structural retrieval methods have focused mainly on finding chemicals with similar structures to the input chemical structural query, and tend to ignore the functional features which are important for determining the chemical property and activity of the chemicals. In this paper, we propose a lattice-based approach for chemical structural retrieval. The proposed lattice-based approach is based on Formal Concept Analysis. It retrieves chemical structures that have functional groups and interactions between functional groups similar to the chemical structural query. The performance of the proposed lattice-based approach is evaluated and its promising performance results have shown that the proposed approach is effective for chemical structural retrieval.
Keywords: Formal concept analysis; Chemical structural similarity retrieval; Latticed-based information retrieval; Chemical concept lattice

Heung-Seon Oh, Yuchul Jung, Cluster-based query expansion using external collections in medical information retrieval, Journal of Biomedical Informatics, Volume 58, December 2015, Pages 70-79, ISSN 1532-0464, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2015.09.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046415002117)
Abstract: Abstract
Utilizing external collections to improve retrieval performance is challenging research because various test collections are created for different purposes. Improving medical information retrieval has also gained much attention as various types of medical documents have become available to researchers ever since they started storing them in machine processable formats. In this paper, we propose an effective method of utilizing external collections based on the pseudo relevance feedback approach. Our method incorporates the structure of external collections in estimating individual components in the final feedback model. Extensive experiments on three medical collections (TREC CDS, CLEF eHealth, and OHSUMED) were performed, and the results were compared with a representative expansion approach utilizing the external collections to show the superiority of our method.
Keywords: Query expansion; External collections; Language models

Hsueh-Sheng Chiang, Justin Eroh, Jeffrey S. Spence, Michael A. Motes, Mandy J. Maguire, Daniel C. Krawczyk, Matthew R. Brier, John Hart Jr., Michael A. Kraut, Common and differential electrophysiological mechanisms underlying semantic object memory retrieval probed by features presented in different stimulus types, International Journal of Psychophysiology, Volume 106, August 2016, Pages 77-86, ISSN 0167-8760, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2016.06.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167876016301143)
Abstract: Abstract
How the brain combines the neural representations of features that comprise an object in order to activate a coherent object memory is poorly understood, especially when the features are presented in different modalities (visual vs. auditory) and domains (verbal vs. nonverbal). We examined this question using three versions of a modified Semantic Object Retrieval Test, where object memory was probed by a feature presented as a written word, a spoken word, or a picture, followed by a second feature always presented as a visual word. Participants indicated whether each feature pair elicited retrieval of the memory of a particular object. Sixteen subjects completed one of the three versions (N = 48 in total) while their EEG were recorded simultaneously. We analyzed EEG data in four separate frequency bands (delta: 1–4 Hz, theta: 4–7 Hz; alpha: 8–12 Hz; beta: 13–19 Hz) using a multivariate data-driven approach. We found that alpha power time-locked to response was modulated by both cross-modality (visual vs. auditory) and cross-domain (verbal vs. nonverbal) probing of semantic object memory. In addition, retrieval trials showed greater changes in all frequency bands compared to non-retrieval trials across all stimulus types in both response-locked and stimulus-locked analyses, suggesting dissociable neural subcomponents involved in binding object features to retrieve a memory. We conclude that these findings support both modality/domain-dependent and modality/domain-independent mechanisms during semantic object memory retrieval.
Keywords: EEG; Semantics; Memory retrieval; Neural oscillations

Yang Song, Dawei Han, Miguel A. Rico-Ramirez, High Temporal Resolution Rainfall Information Retrieval from Tipping-bucket Rain Gauge Measurements, Procedia Engineering, Volume 154, 2016, Pages 1193-1200, ISSN 1877-7058, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.proeng.2016.07.525.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877705816319142)
Abstract: Abstract
Disdrometer can play a vital role in restoring detailed rainfall process by providing rainfall at a high temporal resolution. Rainfall rate derived from the widely used “Tipping-Bucket rain gauge” usually neglects its temporal variation especially during the low rainfall intensity periods. This study explores a heuristic artificial neural networks (ANN) approach along with the conventional Cubic Spline Algorithm (CSA) and Multivariate Linear Regression method (MLR) for high temporal resolution rainfall rate retrieval for the period of 2007 to 2009 at Chilbolton, U.K. The Supervised Levenberg-Marquardt backpropagation algorithm and the K-folds cross-validation method are integrated in a feed-forward neural network as to implicitly detect complex nonlinear relationships and to avoid model overfitting. Results indicate ANN is performing equivalently well with CSA after training, however, with poor generalisation in test due to low correlation between input and target data, as well as the curse of dimensionality in optimum model complexity selection. MLR can be an alternative approach in rainfall rate estimation but it highly depends on the data quality.
Keywords: Rainfall rate; Disdrometer; Tipping-Bucket rain gauge; ANN; CSA; MLR; Pattern Classification ;

Alessio Bottrighi, Luca Canensi, Giorgio Leonardi, Stefania Montani, Paolo Terenziani, Trace retrieval for business process operational support, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 55, 15 August 2016, Pages 212-221, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2015.12.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417415007939)
Abstract: Abstract
Operational support assists users while process instances are being executed, by making predictions about the instance completion, or recommending suitable actions, resources or routing decisions, on the basis of the already completed instances, stored as execution traces in the event log.

In this paper, we propose a case-based retrieval approach to business process management operational support, where log traces are exploited as cases. Once past traces have been retrieved, classical statistical techniques can be applied to them, to support prediction and recommendation. The framework enables the user to submit queries able to express complex patterns exhibited by the current process instance. Such queries can be composed by several simple patterns (i.e., single actions, or direct sequences of actions), separated by delays (i.e., actions we do not care about). Delays can also be imprecise (i.e., the number of actions can be given as a range). The tool also relies on a tree structure, adopted as an index for a quick retrieval from the available event log.

Our approach is highly innovative with respect to the existing literature panorama, since it is the first work that exploits case-based retrieval techniques in the operational support context; moreover, the possibility of retrieving traces by querying complex patterns and the indexing strategy are major departures also with respect to other existing trace retrieval tools proposed in the case based reasoning area.

Thanks to its characteristics and methodological solutions, the tool implements operational support tasks in a flexible and efficient way, as demonstrated by our experimental results.
Keywords: Trace retrieval; Case based reasoning; Operational support

Zhongxiang Du, Xuelong Li, Xiaoqiang Lu, Local structure learning in high resolution remote sensing image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 207, 26 September 2016, Pages 813-822, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.05.061.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216305148)
Abstract: Abstract
High resolution remote sensing image captured by the satellites or the aircraft is of great help for military and civilian applications. In recent years, with an increasing amount of high resolution remote sensing images, it becomes more and more urgent to find a way to retrieve them. In this case, a few methods based on the statistical information of the local features are proposed, which have achieved good performances. However, most of the methods do not take the topological structure of the features into account. In this paper, we propose a new method to represent these images, by taking the structural information into consideration. The main contributions of this paper include: (1) mapping the features into a manifold space by a Lipschitz smooth function to enhance the representation ability of the features; (2) training an anchor set with several regularization constrains to get the intrinsic manifold structure. In the experiments, the method is applied to two challenging remote sensing image datasets: UC Merced land use dataset and Sydney dataset. Compared to the state-of-the-art approaches, the proposed method can achieve a more robust and commendable performance.
Keywords: High resolution remote sensing image retrieval; Lipschitz smooth; Manifold structure

Ian M. McDonough, Dung C. Bui, Michael C. Friedman, Alan D. Castel, Retrieval monitoring is influenced by information value: The interplay between importance and confidence on false memory, Acta Psychologica, Volume 161, October 2015, Pages 7-17, ISSN 0001-6918, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actpsy.2015.07.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0001691815300366)
Abstract: Abstract
The perceived value of information can influence one's motivation to successfully remember that information. This study investigated how information value can affect memory search and evaluation processes (i.e., retrieval monitoring). In Experiment 1, participants studied unrelated words associated with low, medium, or high values. Subsequent memory tests required participants to selectively monitor retrieval for different values. False memory effects were smaller when searching memory for high-value than low-value words, suggesting that people more effectively monitored more important information. In Experiment 2, participants studied semantically-related words, and the need for retrieval monitoring was reduced at test by using inclusion instructions (i.e., endorsement of any word related to the studied words) compared with standard instructions. Inclusion instructions led to increases in false recognition for low-value, but not for high-value words, suggesting that under standard-instruction conditions retrieval monitoring was less likely to occur for important information. Experiment 3 showed that words retrieved with lower confidence were associated with more effective retrieval monitoring, suggesting that the quality of the retrieved memory influenced the degree and effectiveness of monitoring processes. Ironically, unless encouraged to do so, people were less likely to carefully monitor important information, even though people want to remember important memories most accurately.
Keywords: False memory; Heuristics; Memory; Metamemory; Word recognition; Value

Jianqiang Li, Chunchen Liu, Bo Liu, Rui Mao, Yongcai Wang, Shi Chen, Ji-Jiang Yang, Hui Pan, Qing Wang, Diversity-aware retrieval of medical records, Computers in Industry, Volume 69, May 2015, Pages 81-91, ISSN 0166-3615, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2014.09.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361514001742)
Abstract: Abstract
The widely adoption of Electronic Medical Records (EMRs) causes an explosive growth of the medical and clinical data. It makes the medical search technologies become critical to find useful patient information in the large medical dataset. However, the high quality medical search is a challenging task, in particular due to the inherent complexity and ambiguity of medical terminology. In this paper, by exploiting the uncertainty in ambiguous medical queries, we propose a novel semantic-based approach to achieve the diversity-aware retrieval of EMRs, i.e., both the relevance and novelty are considered for EMR ranking. With the support of medical domain ontologies, we first mine all the potential semantics (concepts and relations between them) from a user query and consume them to model the multiple query aspects. Then, we propose a novel diversification strategy, which considers not only the aspect importance but also the aspect similarity, to perform the diversity-aware EMR ranking. A real-world pilot study, which utilizes the proposed medical search approach to improve the second use of the EMRs, is reported. We believe that our experience can serve as an important reference for the development of similar applications in a medical data utilization and sharing environment.
Keywords: Medical search; Query understanding; Search result diversification; Medical information retrieval

Rogério Martins Gomes, Antônio Pádua Braga, Henrique Elias Borges, Information storage and retrieval analysis of hierarchically coupled associative memories, Information Sciences, Volume 195, 15 July 2012, Pages 175-189, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2012.01.036.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025512000643)
Abstract: This paper presents information storage and retrieval analysis as well as energy analysis of a multi-level or hierarchically coupled associative memory based on coupled generalised-brain-state-in-a-box (GBSB) neural networks. In this model, the memory processes are described as being organised functionally in hierarchical levels where higher levels coordinate sets of functions of the lower levels. We consider the case where lowest level subnetworks have predefined attractors, prior to imposing their association through imprinting synapses between them. Simulations are carried out using linearly independent (Li) and orthogonal vectors considering a wide range of parameters. The results obtained show that, even when the neural networks are weakly coupled, the system still presents a significant convergence to global patterns, mainly in orthogonal vectors.
Keywords: Associative memory; Generalised-brain-state-in-a-box (GBSB); Storage; Retrieval; Energy analysis; Theory of neuronal group selection (TNGS)

Ana Raposo, Sofia Frade, Mara Alves, Framing memories: How the retrieval query format shapes the neural bases of remembering, Neuropsychologia, Volume 89, August 2016, Pages 309-319, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2016.06.036.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393216302354)
Abstract: Abstract
The way memory questions are framed influences the information that is searched, retrieved, and monitored during remembering. This fMRI study aimed at clarifying how the format of the retrieval query shapes the neural basis of source recollection. During encoding, participants made semantic (pleasantness) or perceptual (number of letters) judgments about words. Subsequently, in a source memory test, the retrieval query was manipulated such that for half of the items from each encoding task, the retrieval query emphasized the semantic source (i.e., semantic query format: “Is this word from the pleasantness task?”), whereas for the other half the retrieval query emphasized the alternate, perceptual source (i.e., perceptual query format: “Is this word from the letter task?”). The results showed that the semantic query format was associated with higher source recognition than the perceptual query format. This behavioral advantage was accompanied by increased activation in several regions associated to controlled semantic elaboration and monitoring of internally-generated features about the past event. In particular, for items semantically encoded, the semantic query, relative to the perceptual query, induced activation in medial prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampal, parahippocampal and middle temporal cortex. Conversely, for items perceptually encoded, the semantic query recruited the lateral PFC and occipital-fusiform areas. Interestingly, the semantic format also influenced the processing of new items, eliciting greater L lateral and medial PFC activation. In contrast, the perceptual query format (versus the semantic format) only prompted greater activation in R orbitofrontal cortex and the R inferior parietal lobe, for items encoded in a perceptual manner and for new items, respectively. The results highlight the role of the retrieval query format in source remembering, showing that the retrieval query that emphasizes the semantic source promotes the use of semantic strategies via medial and L lateral PFC activations. These frontal activations are accompanied by differential recruitment of more posterior regions, depending on the type of information that had been encoded.
Keywords: Source remembering; Retrieval query format; Prefrontal cortex; fMRI

David Novillo-Ortiz, Tony Hernández-Pérez, Francesc Saigí-Rubió, Availability of information in Public Health on the Internet: An analysis of national health authorities in the Spanish-speaking Latin American and Caribbean countries, International Journal of Medical Informatics, Volume 100, April 2017, Pages 46-55, ISSN 1386-5056, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2017.01.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1386505617300138)
Abstract: AbstractIntroduction
Access to reliable and quality health information and appropriate medical advice can contribute to a dramatic reduction in the mortality figures of countries. The governments of the Americas are faced with the opportunity to continue working on this challenge, and their institutional presence on their websites should play a key role in this task. In a setting where the access to information is essential to both health professionals and citizens, it is relevant to analyze the role of national health authorities. Given that search engines play such a key role in the access to health information, it is important to specifically know – in connection to national health authorities – whether health information offered is easily available to the population, and whether this information is well-ranked in search engines.
Methods
Quantitative methods were used to gather data on the institutional presence of national health authorities on the web. An exploratory and descriptive research served to analyze and interpret data and information obtained quantitatively from different perspectives, including an analysis by country, and also by leading causes of death. A total of 18 web pages were analyzed. Information on leading causes of death was searched on websites of national health authorities in the week of August 10–14, 2015.
Results
The probability of finding information of national health authorities on the 10 leading causes of death in a country, among the top 10 results on Google, is 6.66%. Additionally, ten out the 18 countries under study (55%) do not have information ranked among the top results in Google when searching for the selected terms. Additionally, a total of 33 websites represent the sources of information with the highest visibility for all the search strategies in each country on Google for the ten leading causes of death in a country. Two websites, the National Library of Medicine and Wikipedia, occur as a result with visibility in the total of eighteen countries of the sample.
Conclusions
Taking into consideration that providing reliable and quality information on these topics to the population should be one of the priorities of national health authorities, these results suggest that national health authorities need to take measures to try to better position their contents.
Keywords: Online health information; Information retrieval; Health communication; Google; Health information search; Medical informatics

Pere Llimona, Glòria Pérez, Maica Rodríguez-Sanz, Ana M. Novoa, Albert Espelt, Patricia Garcia de Olalla, Carme Borrell, Infobarris: una herramienta interactiva para monitorizar y divulgar información sobre la salud y sus determinantes en los barrios de Barcelona, Gaceta Sanitaria, Available online 12 April 2017, ISSN 0213-9111, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gaceta.2017.01.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S021391111730081X)
Abstract: Resumen
Para conocer la salud de la población es necesario realizar un análisis conjunto y continuado de su estado de salud y de sus determinantes. El objetivo de esta nota de campo es describir el desarrollo y el funcionamiento de la herramienta Infobarris, que permite visualizar una amplia batería de indicadores y determinantes de la salud de la población de la ciudad de Barcelona según el barrio de residencia. Para el desarrollo de Infobarris se ha usado una metodología ágil que permite el desarrollo de un proyecto de forma iterativa e incremental en etapas: selección de indicadores, diseño del prototipo, desarrollo de la herramienta de visualización, carga de datos, revisión y mejora de la herramienta. Infobarris permite la visualización interactiva de 64 indicadores de salud y de sus determinantes, mediante gráficos, mapas y tablas, lo que facilita la vigilancia de la salud y de sus determinantes en los barrios de la ciudad de Barcelona.
Abstract
In order to know about the health of the population, it is necessary to perform a systematic and continuous analysis of their health status and social and economic health determinants. The objective of this paper is to describe the development and implementation of the Infobarris tool, which allows to visualize a wide battery of indicators and social determinants of health by neighbourhoods in the city of Barcelona (Spain). For the development of the Infobarris tool, we used an agile methodology that allows the development of a project in iterative and incremental stages, which are the following: selection of indicators, design of the prototype, development of the tool, data loading, and tool review and improvements. Infobarris displays 64 indicators of health and its determinants through graphics, maps and tables, in a friendly, interactive and attractive way, which facilitates health surveillance in the neighbourhoods of Barcelona.
Palabras clave: Barrios; Indicadores del estado de salud; Características sociales; Desigualdades en salud; Sistemas de información; Almacenamiento y recuperación de información; Neighbourhoods; Health status indicators; Social characteristics; Health inequalities; Information systems; Information storage and retrieval

Athanasios Plessas, Vassileios Stefanis, Andreas Komninos, John Garofalakis, Field evaluation of context aware adaptive interfaces for efficient mobile contact retrieval, Pervasive and Mobile Computing, Volume 35, February 2017, Pages 51-64, ISSN 1574-1192, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pmcj.2016.04.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574119216300347)
Abstract: Abstract
Our paper discusses the implementation and field evaluation of a context-aware mobile contact retrieval application. We examine the performance of our underlying prediction algorithm in real world conditions and report on the suitability of our hybrid interface design, as a replacement for traditional contact retrieval interfaces (e.g. phonebook and recent call list). We find that users are best served by an alphabetical ordering of prediction matches and show that hybrid interface designs can provide a modest benefit in users’ ability to find a contact, in cases of non-successful predictions. We also discuss users’ alternative strategies for retrieval in such cases.
Keywords: Context awareness; Mobile personal information management; Mobile user interfaces

Mohsen Ramezani, Farzin Yaghmaee, A novel video recommendation system based on efficient retrieval of human actions, Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, Volume 457, 1 September 2016, Pages 607-623, ISSN 0378-4371, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2016.03.101.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437116300991)
Abstract: Abstract
In recent years, fast growth of online video sharing eventuated new issues such as helping users to find their requirements in an efficient way. Hence, Recommender Systems (RSs) are used to find the users’ most favorite items. Finding these items relies on items or users similarities. Though, many factors like sparsity and cold start user impress the recommendation quality. In some systems, attached tags are used for searching items (e.g. videos) as personalized recommendation. Different views, incomplete and inaccurate tags etc. can weaken the performance of these systems. Considering the advancement of computer vision techniques can help improving RSs. To this end, content based search can be used for finding items (here, videos are considered). In such systems, a video is taken from the user to find and recommend a list of most similar videos to the query one. Due to relating most videos to humans, we present a novel low complex scalable method to recommend videos based on the model of included action. This method has recourse to human action retrieval approaches. For modeling human actions, some interest points are extracted from each action and their motion information are used to compute the action representation. Moreover, a fuzzy dissimilarity measure is presented to compare videos for ranking them. The experimental results on HMDB, UCFYT, UCF sport and KTH datasets illustrated that, in most cases, the proposed method can reach better results than most used methods.
Keywords: Recommender systems; Content based retrieval; Human actions; Action representation; Fuzzy dissimilarity measure

Stephen Fitchett, Andy Cockburn, An empirical characterisation of file retrieval, International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, Volume 74, February 2015, Pages 1-13, ISSN 1071-5819, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhcs.2014.10.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S107158191400127X)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieving files on personal computers is a fundamental component of interaction, yet there is surprisingly little empirical data characterising how it is carried out in realistic settings. We developed software, called FileMonitor, to dynamically record users׳ file retrieval activities, including data describing the files retrieved and the tools used to retrieve them. We then deployed the system in a four week log study of 26 participants׳ actual file retrievals on their personal computers. Follow-up interviews contextualised the findings. Results are presented in two sections focusing on the files (the number of files, patterns of revisitation, file types, etc.) and on the interface mechanisms used to retrieve them (file browsers, search tools, ‘recent files’ lists, etc.). We conclude by discussing implications for the design of next-generation file retrieval interfaces.
Keywords: Personal information management; Retrieval; Files; Navigation; Search

Yanfen Li, Chunmin Zhang, Dongdong Liu, Jie Chen, Piao Rong, Xingying Zhang, Shupeng Wang, XCO2 retrieval algorithm in short-wave infrared spectrum and validation with TCCON data, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 127, Issue 16, August 2016, Pages 6479-6483, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2016.04.074.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402616303497)
Abstract: Abstract
Based on the optimal estimation method, the global carbon dioxide hyperspectral remote sensing inversion system GF_VRTM is established for the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide remote sensing detection of GF-5 satellite. The period of April 2013 to April 2014 GOSAT-FTS observations over TCCON site Tsukba are simulated by GF_VRTM, and the retrieval results are compared with GOSAT-FTS products and TCCON XCO2. The mean residuals between the GOSAT-measured and GF_VRTM-simulated spectra are nearly zero for the O2-A band and WCO2 band over the spectral ranges. The average and standard deviation of ΔXCO2 between GF_VRTM retrievals and GOSAT-FTS L2 products are evaluated to be −1.63 and 1.78 ppm for the whole period, and the average and standard deviation of ΔXCO2 between GF_VRTM retrievals and TCCON data are evaluated to be −0.38 and 2.25 ppm for the whole period. The accuracy of the GF_VRTM retrieval is less than 1% based on the validation results with GOSAT-FTS L2 products and TCCON data.
Keywords: GF_VRTM; GOSAT-FTS; XCO2 retrieval; TCCON data; Validation

Libin Zhou, Bin Zhuang, Hao Sun, Zhengquan He, Manli Hu, Xueguang Qiao, Speckle phase retrieval and transmission matrix obtaining of turbid media, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 127, Issue 20, October 2016, Pages 9911-9916, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2016.07.091.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402616308579)
Abstract: Abstract
Previous research has demonstrated that distorted images caused by turbid media can be reconstructed by turbid lens imaging (TLI) method. In this way, it’s critical to accurately obtain the transmission matrix (TM) of turbid media. In this letter, we propose an improved method which is still based on Hilbert transform to get the transmission matrices, but it will use four images for each transmission matrix element to eliminate the influence of speckle intensity variation. In addition, a Hanning window filter is introduced to reduce the white Gaussian noise of original images to improve the result of TLI method.
Keywords: Imaging through turbid media; Phase retrieval; Speckle; Multiple scattering; Image reconstruction techniques

Mahdi Mehrabi, Farzad Zargari, Mohammad Ghanbari, Mohammad Amin Shayegan, Fast content access and retrieval of JPEG compressed images, Signal Processing: Image Communication, Volume 46, August 2016, Pages 54-59, ISSN 0923-5965, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.image.2016.05.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923596516300625)
Abstract: Abstract
Fast content access and content based retrieval of images are among the common web and signal processing applications; on the other hand, JPEG is the dominant format for image compression in a wide range of applications. In this paper, a simple and fast method for content access and retrieval of JPEG coded images is presented which does not require complete decompression of coded images. The presented method uses DCT coefficients of coded blocks in the JPEG bit stream to extract average values of various size picture blocks namely DC values. The DC values provide an approximation of the coded image, which can be employed to construct a lower resolution picture or color histogram of the JPEG coded image for retrieval and other applications without full decompression of the image.
Keywords: JPEG images; Fast content access; DC image; Image retrieval; Compressed domain

Pengwen Chen, Albert Fannjiang, Fourier phase retrieval with a single mask by Douglas–Rachford algorithms, Applied and Computational Harmonic Analysis, Available online 26 July 2016, ISSN 1063-5203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acha.2016.07.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1063520316300410)
Abstract: Abstract
The Fourier-domain Douglas–Rachford (FDR) algorithm is analyzed for phase retrieval with a single random mask. Since the uniqueness of phase retrieval solution requires more than a single oversampled coded diffraction pattern, the extra information is imposed in either of the following forms: 1) the sector condition on the object; 2) another oversampled diffraction pattern, coded or uncoded.

For both settings, the uniqueness of projected fixed point is proved and for setting 2) the local, geometric convergence is derived with a rate given by a spectral gap condition. Numerical experiments demonstrate global, power-law convergence of FDR from arbitrary initialization for both settings as well as for 3 or more coded diffraction patterns without oversampling. In practice, the geometric convergence can be recovered from the power-law regime by a simple projection trick, resulting in highly accurate reconstruction from generic initialization.
Keywords: Phase retrieval; Coded diffraction pattern; Douglas–Rachford algorithm; Geometric convergence; Spectral gap

Osorio-Gómez Daniel, Guzmán-Ramos Kioko, Bermúdez-Rattoni Federico, Differential involvement of glutamatergic and catecholaminergic activity within the amygdala during taste aversion retrieval on memory expression and updating, Behavioural Brain Research, Volume 307, 1 July 2016, Pages 120-125, ISSN 0166-4328, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbr.2016.03.038.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166432816301784)
Abstract: Abstract
During memory retrieval, consolidated memories are expressed and destabilized in order to maintain or update information through a memory reconsolidation process. Despite the key role of the amygdala during memory acquistion and consolidation, the participation of neurotransmitter signals in memory retrieval is poorly understood. Hence, we used conditioned taste aversion and in vivo microdialysis to evaluate changes in glutamate, norepinephrine and dopamine concentrations within the amygdala during memory retrieval. We observed that exposure to an aversive-conditioned stimulus induced an augmentation in glutamate, norepinephrine and dopamine levels within the amygdala, while exposure to a familiar and safe stimulus did not induce changes in these neurotransmitters levels. Also, we evaluated the amygdalar blockade of α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA), N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA), β-adrenergic and dopamine D1 receptors in memory retrieval and updating. Results showed that during retrieval, behavioural expression was impaired by intra-amygdalar blockade of AMPA and β-adrenergic receptors, whereas NMDA, D1 and β-adrenergic receptors blockade hindered memory updating. In summary, during conditioned taste aversion retrieval there was an increase in the extracellular levels of glutamate, norepinephrine and dopamine within the amygdala, and their receptors activity were differentially involved in the behavioural expression and memory updating during retrieval.
Keywords: Retrieval; Glutamate; Dopamine; Norepinephrine; Memory updating; Microdialysis

Zhenyu Weng, Ziqiang Sun, Yuesheng Zhu, Asymmetric hashing with multi-bit quantization for image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 207, 26 September 2016, Pages 71-77, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.04.037.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216303022)
Abstract: Abstract
In the hashing approaches with multi-bit quantization, each projected dimension is divided into multiple regions indexed with multiple bits to preserve the neighborhood structure of the data. However, the query is processed in binary, and the distances between the adjacent regions are usually assumed to be equal, resulting in the accuracy loss of the computed distance between the data and the query. To tackle the above problems, in this paper an approach is proposed to process the query and the data asymmetrically. By representing the data with the expectation value of the region where the data belong and preserving the query in original form, the distance between the query and the data can be computed accurately. A specific asymmetric approach with non-parametric multi-bit quantization is further developed for the PCA (Principle Component Analysis) hashing method. With the special consideration of PCA characteristic, every projected dimension is adaptively divided into a certain number of the regions according to the minimal variance. The results of the experiments have shown that the better performance can be obtained in the asymmetric hashing approach with multi-bit quantization than that in the other approaches, and can be improved further in the specific asymmetric approach with non-parametric multi-bit quantization with respect to the PCA hashing method.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Asymmetric hashing; Multi-bit quantization

Xiaqing Pan, Sachin Chachada, C.-C. Jay Kuo, A two-stage shape retrieval (TSR) method with global and local features, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 38, July 2016, Pages 753-762, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2016.04.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320316300530)
Abstract: Abstract
A robust two-stage shape retrieval (TSR) method is proposed to address the 2D shape retrieval problem. Most state-of-the-art shape retrieval methods are based on local features matching and ranking. Their retrieval performance is not robust since they may retrieve globally dissimilar shapes in high ranks. To overcome this challenge, we decompose the decision process into two stages. In the first irrelevant cluster filtering (ICF) stage, we consider both global and local features and use them to predict the relevance of gallery shapes with respect to the query. Irrelevant shapes are removed from the candidate shape set. After that, a local-features-based matching and ranking (LMR) method follows in the second stage. We apply the proposed TSR system to MPEG-7, Kimia99 and Tari1000 three datasets and show that it outperforms all other existing methods. The robust retrieval performance of the TSR system is demonstrated.
Keywords: 2D shape retrieval; Shape representation; MPEG-7 shape dataset; Kimia99 dataset; Tari1000 dataset

Baopeng Zhang, Hangzai Luo, Jianping Fan, Statistical modeling for automatic image indexing and retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 207, 26 September 2016, Pages 105-119, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.04.033.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216302946)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, a statistical modeling algorithm is developed to achieve automatic detection of object classes and image concepts via partial similarity matching. For a given image, its statistical image model is automatically learned by using a finite mixture model to approximate the distribution of its image pixels in the 10-dimensional feature space. Such statistical image modeling process can also achieve automatic image segmentation implicitly. To achieve more precise matching between the mixture components and the local distributions of the relevant image pixels, an adaptive EM algorithm is developed to simultaneously select the model structure (i.e., the optimal number of mixture components) and estimate the model parameters (i.e., locations and statistical properties of the mixture components) according to the local distributions of the relevant image pixels. For a given image concept or object class of interest, its statistical concept model is automatically learned from the statistical image models for the labeled training images. Finally, similarity matching for automatic detection of object classes and image concepts is treated as a partial model matching problem, i.e., matching between the statistical image model for a given test image and all the statistical concept models for the object classes and image concepts of interest. Our experimental results have demonstrated that our statistical modeling algorithm can achieve very competitive results on both automatic image segmentation and classification.
Keywords: Statistical image modeling; Statistical concept modeling; Adaptive EM algorithm; Partial similarity matching; Automatic image indexing and retrieval

Dimitris Mourtzis, Michael Doukas, Christos Giannoulis, An Inference-based Knowledge Reuse Framework for Historical Product and Production Information Retrieval, Procedia CIRP, Volume 41, 2016, Pages 472-477, ISSN 2212-8271, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2015.12.026.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212827115011051)
Abstract: Abstract
The reuse of past knowledge constitutes a key factor for improving manufacturing performance, during design, planning, and operational phases. However, valuable knowledge generated and associated to products and processes on a daily basis, remains implicit and its reusability is confined to a specific machine operator or within legacy IT databases. The work proposed in this paper introduces a framework to enable reusability of manufacturing knowledge through inference rules applied on manufacturing ontologies. Initially, a mechanism is used to access a Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) and through a rule-based approach, it exports the analogous ontological schema. The ontology constitutes the knowledge base and is stored in a knowledge repository. An inference engine is then used to query this repository and derive additional assertions, which are entailed from the base schema, on product, process, and resource. The method is developed in a web app, which offers to the users the capability to create, activate, and share rules and results on engineering topics. The effectiveness of the framework is validated using a real industrial case from a high-precision mould-making SME.
Keywords: Knowledge reuse; Inference; Manufacturing

Michalis A. Savelonas, Ioannis Pratikakis, Konstantinos Sfikas, Fisher encoding of differential fast point feature histograms for partial 3D object retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Volume 55, July 2016, Pages 114-124, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2016.02.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320316000595)
Abstract: Abstract
Partial 3D object retrieval has attracted intense research efforts due to its potential for a wide range of applications, such as 3D object repair and predictive digitization. This work introduces a partial 3D object retrieval method, applicable on both point clouds and structured 3D models, which is based on a shape matching scheme combining local shape descriptors with their Fisher encodings. Experiments on the SHREC 2013 large-scale benchmark dataset for partial object retrieval, as well as on the publicly available Hampson pottery dataset, demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms seven recently evaluated partial retrieval methods.
Keywords: 3D object retrieval; Partial matching; Local descriptors; Fisher encoding

Baixi Xing, Kejun Zhang, Shouqian Sun, Lekai Zhang, Zenggui Gao, Jiaxi Wang, Shi Chen, Emotion-driven Chinese folk music-image retrieval based on DE-SVM, Neurocomputing, Volume 148, 19 January 2015, Pages 619-627, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.08.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231214010212)
Abstract: Abstract
In this study, we attempt to explore cross-media retrieval between music and image data based on the emotional correlation. Emotion feature analytic could be the bridge of cross-media retrieval, since emotion represents the user׳s perspective and effectively meets the user׳s retrieval need. Currently, there is little research about the emotion correlation of different multimedia data (e.g. image or music). We propose a promising model based on Differential Evolutionary-Support Vector Machine (DE-SVM) to build up the emotion-driven cross-media retrieval system between Chinese folk image and Chinese folk music. In this work, we first build up the Chinese Folk Music Library and Chinese Folk Image Library.Second, we compare Back Propagation(BP), Linear Regression(LR) and Differential Evolutionary-Support Vector Machine (DE-SVM), and find that DE-SVM has the best performance. Then we conduct DE-SVM to build the optimal model for music/image emotion recognition. Finally, an Emotion-driven Chinese Folk Music-Image Exploring System based on DE-SVM is developed and experiment results show our method is effective in terms of retrieval performance.
Keywords: Music emotion recognition; Image emotion recognition; Differential Evolutionary algorithm; Support vector machine; Back propagation; Cross-media information retrieval

Yan Zhang, Feng Jiang, Seungmin Rho, Shaohui Liu, Debin Zhao, Rongrong Ji, 3D object retrieval with multi-feature collaboration and bipartite graph matching, Neurocomputing, Volume 195, 26 June 2016, Pages 40-49, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.09.118.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216000990)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we propose a novel 3D object retrieval with features collaboration and bipartite graph matching strategies. We explored the essential characters of 3D object in a view-based retrieval framework, which extracts complement descriptors from both the contour and the interior region of 3D object effectively. Specifically, a greedy bipartite graph matching algorithm is employed. With the bipartite graph matching and feature concatenation, significant performance improvement is achieved in the 3D object retrieval task. The proposed method is evaluated by the third party on the data set comprising more than 500 3D objects and achieves the best performance for SHREC’15 challenge.
Keywords: View-based retrieval; Multi-feature; Bipartite graph

Ming-Feng Tsai, Chuan-Ju Wang, Post-Modern Portfolio Theory for Information Retrieval, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 13, 2012, Pages 80-85, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2012.09.116.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050912007235)
Abstract: Information Retrieval (IR) aims to discover relevant information according to a user's information need. The classic Probability Ranking Principle (PRP) forms the theoretical basis for probabilistic IR models. This ranking principle, however, neglects the uncertainty introduced through the estimations from retrieval models. Inspired by the Post-Modern Portfolio Theory (PMPT), this paper proposes a mean-semivariance framework to handle the uncertainty. The proposed framework not only deals with the uncertainty but has the ability to distinguish bad surprises (downside uncertainty) and good surprises (upside uncertainty) when optimizing a ranking list. The experimental results shows that the proposed method improves the IR performance over the PRP baseline in terms of most of IR evaluation metrics; moreover, the results suggest that the mean-semivariance framework can further boost the top-position ranking quality.
Keywords: Retrieval models; Optimization; Semivariance

Annalisa Benetello, Chiara Finocchiaro, Rita Capasso, Erminio Capitani, Marcella Laiacona, Stefano Magon, Gabriele Miceli, The dissociability of lexical retrieval and morphosyntactic processes for nouns and verbs: A functional and anatomoclinical study, Brain and Language, Volume 159, August 2016, Pages 11-22, ISSN 0093-934X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bandl.2016.05.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0093934X15301784)
Abstract: Abstract
Nouns and verbs can dissociate following brain damage, at both lexical retrieval and morphosyntactic processing levels. In order to document the range and the neural underpinnings of behavioral dissociations, twelve aphasics with disproportionate difficulty naming objects or actions were asked to apply phonologically identical morphosyntactic transformations to nouns and verbs.

Two subjects with poor object naming and 2/10 with poor action naming made no morphosyntactic errors at all. Six of 10 subjects with poor action naming showed disproportionate or no morphosyntactic difficulties for verbs. Morphological errors on nouns and verbs correlated at the group level, but in individual cases a selective impairment of verb morphology was observed.

Poor object and action naming with spared morphosyntax were associated with non-overlapping lesions (inferior occipitotemporal and fronto-temporal, respectively). Poor verb morphosyntax was observed with frontal-temporal lesions affecting white matter tracts deep to the insula, possibly disrupting the interaction of nodes in a fronto-temporal network.
Keywords: Noun/verb dissociations; Noun/verb retrieval impairment; Nominal/verbal morphosyntactic impairment; Fronto-temporal verb network

Mourad Lazri, Soltane Ameur, A satellite rainfall retrieval technique over northern Algeria based on the probability of rainfall intensities classification from MSG-SEVIRI, Journal of Atmospheric and Solar-Terrestrial Physics, Volume 147, September 2016, Pages 106-120, ISSN 1364-6826, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jastp.2016.07.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364682616301857)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, an algorithm based on the probability of rainfall intensities classification for rainfall estimation from Meteosat Second Generation/Spinning Enhanced Visible and Infrared Imager (MSG-SEVIRI) has been developed. The classification scheme uses various spectral parameters of SEVIRI that provide information about cloud top temperature and optical and microphysical cloud properties. The presented method is developed and trained for the north of Algeria. The calibration of the method is carried out using as a reference rain classification fields derived from radar for rainy season from November 2006 to March 2007. Rainfall rates are assigned to rain areas previously identified and classified according to the precipitation formation processes. The comparisons between satellite-derived precipitation estimates and validation data show that the developed scheme performs reasonably well. Indeed, the correlation coefficient presents a significant level (r:0.87). The values of POD, POFD and FAR are 80%, 13% and 25%, respectively. Also, for a rainfall estimation of about 614 mm, the RMSD, Bias, MAD and PD indicate 102.06(mm), 2.18(mm), 68.07(mm) and 12.58, respectively.
Keywords: MSG SEVIRI; Rainfall retrieval; Rainfall intensities

Bai Li, An evolutionary approach for image retrieval based on lateral inhibition, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 127, Issue 13, July 2016, Pages 5430-5438, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2016.02.056.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402616301206)
Abstract: Abstract
Image retrieval refers to searching for specific pattern when browsing digital images in large databases. It is a fundamental topic in visual pattern recognition. The original image retrieval scheme is converted into a 2-dimensional optimization problem, during which image enhancement, a preprocessing step, is implemented to ease the template matching procedure. Image enhancement is achieved via lateral inhibition. Fundamental issues in this topic are investigated in this paper: (1) whether it is sensible to adopt an evolutionary algorithm to search for the best-match result, given that the concerned optimization problem has merely two dimensions; (2) how lateral inhibition takes effect to facilitate image retrieval. According to our comparative experimental results, there is no evidence that indicates lateral inhibition makes any subtle effort to ease the best-match optimization process. This paper also provides theoretical analyses regarding the evolutionary algorithm adopted.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Lateral inhibition; Numerical optimization; Evolutionary algorithm; Artificial bee colony algorithm

Natsuda Kaothanthong, Jinhee Chun, Takeshi Tokuyama, Distance interior ratio: A new shape signature for 2D shape retrieval, Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 78, 15 July 2016, Pages 14-21, ISSN 0167-8655, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2016.03.029.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167865516300332)
Abstract: Abstract
In this work, we propose a shape signature named Distance Interior Ratio (DIR) that utilizes intersection pattern of the distribution of line segments with the shape. To improve the efficiency of the histogram-based shape signature, we present a histogram alignment method for adjusting the interval of the histogram according to the distance distribution. The experimental result shows a 3.25% improvement using the proposed histogram alignment. When compared to other shape signatures, our experimental result gives a 77.69% retrieval rate using MPEG7 Part B dataset [Latecki, et al. (2000)[14]].
Keywords: Shape signature; Shape retrieval; Homometric pair

Jane E. Herron, Lisa H. Evans, Edward L. Wilding, Electrophysiological evidence for flexible goal-directed cue processing during episodic retrieval, NeuroImage, Volume 132, 15 May 2016, Pages 24-31, ISSN 1053-8119, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2016.02.025.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811916001324)
Abstract: Abstract
A widely held assumption is that memory retrieval is aided by cognitive control processes that are engaged flexibly in service of memory retrieval and memory decisions. While there is some empirical support for this view, a notable exception is the absence of evidence for the flexible use of retrieval control in functional neuroimaging experiments requiring frequent switches between tasks with different cognitive demands. This absence is troublesome in so far as frequent switches between tasks mimic some of the challenges that are typically placed on memory outside the laboratory. In this experiment we instructed participants to alternate frequently between three episodic memory tasks requiring item recognition or retrieval of one of two different kinds of contextual information encoded in a prior study phase (screen location or encoding task). Event-related potentials (ERPs) elicited by unstudied items in the two tasks requiring retrieval of study context were reliably different, demonstrating for the first time that ERPs index task-specific processing of retrieval cues when retrieval goals change frequently. The inclusion of the item recognition task was a novel and important addition in this study, because only the ERPs elicited by unstudied items in one of the two context conditions diverged from those in the item recognition condition. This outcome constrains functional interpretations of the differences that emerged between the two context conditions and emphasises the utility of this baseline in functional imaging studies of retrieval processing operations.
Keywords: Event-related potentials; Episodic memory; Cue processing; Retrieval orientation; Content specificity; Task-switching; Preparatory processing

Massimiliano Ruocco, Heri Ramampiaro, Geo-temporal distribution of tag terms for event-related image retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 51, Issue 1, January 2015, Pages 92-110, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2014.09.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457314000867)
Abstract: Abstract
Media sharing applications, such as Flickr and Panoramio, contain a large amount of pictures related to real life events. For this reason, the development of effective methods to retrieve these pictures is important, but still a challenging task. Recognizing this importance, and to improve the retrieval effectiveness of tag-based event retrieval systems, we propose a new method to extract a set of geographical tag features from raw geo-spatial profiles of user tags. The main idea is to use these features to select the best expansion terms in a machine learning-based query expansion approach. Specifically, we apply rigorous statistical exploratory analysis of spatial point patterns to extract the geo-spatial features. We use the features both to summarize the spatial characteristics of the spatial distribution of a single term, and to determine the similarity between the spatial profiles of two terms – i.e., term-to-term spatial similarity. To further improve our approach, we investigate the effect of combining our geo-spatial features with temporal features on choosing the expansion terms. To evaluate our method, we perform several experiments, including well-known feature analyzes. Such analyzes show how much our proposed geo-spatial features contribute to improve the overall retrieval performance. The results from our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness and viability of our method.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Spatial profile; Tag relatedness; Query expansion; Event retrieval; Social media retrieval

Shreelekha Pandey, Pritee Khanna, Haruo Yokota, A semantics and image retrieval system for hierarchical image databases, Information Processing & Management, Volume 52, Issue 4, July 2016, Pages 571-591, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2015.12.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457315001429)
Abstract: Abstract
This work presents a content based semantics and image retrieval system for semantically categorized hierarchical image databases. Each module is designed with an aim to develop a system that works closer to human perception. Images are mapped to a multidimensional feature space, where images belonging a semantic are clustered and indexed to acquire its efficient representation. This helps in handling the existing variability or heterogeneity within this semantic. Adaptive combinations of the obtained depictions are utilized by the branch selection and pruning algorithms to identify some closer semantics and select only a part of the large hierarchical search space for actual search. So obtained search space is finally used to retrieve desired semantics and similar images corresponding to them. The system is evaluated in terms of accuracy of the retrieved semantics and precision-recall curves. Experiments show promising semantics and image retrieval results on hierarchical image databases. The results reported with non-hierarchical but categorized image databases further prove the efficacy of the proposed system.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval; Semantic assignment; Clustering; Visual search space; Indexing of visual features

Matteo Ceriotti, Joan Pau Sanchez, Control of asteroid retrieval trajectories to libration point orbits, Acta Astronautica, Volume 126, September–October 2016, Pages 342-353, ISSN 0094-5765, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actaastro.2016.03.037.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094576515300138)
Abstract: Abstract
The fascinating idea of shepherding asteroids for science and resource utilization is being considered as a credible concept in a not too distant future. Past studies identified asteroids which could be efficiently injected into manifolds which wind onto periodic orbits around collinear Lagrangian points of the Sun-Earth system. However, the trajectories are unstable, and errors in the capture maneuver would lead to complete mission failure, with potential danger of collision with the Earth, if uncontrolled. This paper investigates the controllability of some asteroids along the transfers and the periodic orbits, assuming the use of a solar-electric low-thrust system shepherding the asteroid. Firstly, an analytical approach is introduced to estimate the stability of the trajectories from a dynamical point of view; then, a numerical control scheme based on a linear quadratic regulator is proposed, where the gains are optimized for each trajectory through a genetic algorithm. A stochastic simulation with a Monte Carlo approach is used to account for different perturbed initial conditions and the epistemic uncertainty on the asteroid mass. Results show that only a small subset of the considered combinations of trajectories/asteroids are reliably controllable, and therefore controllability must be taken into account in the selection of potential targets.
Keywords: Asteroid; Retrieval; Control; Trajectory; Libration-point orbits; Transfer

P. Zhang, F. Ma, X. Xiao, Thermal energy storage and retrieval characteristics of a molten-salt latent heat thermal energy storage system, Applied Energy, Volume 173, 1 July 2016, Pages 255-271, ISSN 0306-2619, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2016.04.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261916304615)
Abstract: Abstract
In the present study, a shell-and-tube latent heat thermal energy storage (LHTES) system is built using the eutectic molten salt as the phase change material (PCM) to make an efficient use of solar energy at medium-temperature of around 200.0 °C. The nickel foam is embedded in pure PCM (molten salt) to form composite PCM to improve the performance of the LHTES system through enhancing the effective thermal conductivity of the PCM. The performances of the systems using pure molten salt and composite PCM are investigated both experimentally and numerically. The oil is used as the heat transfer fluid (HTF) and the influence of mass flow rate of the HTF on the thermal energy storage and retrieval is investigated in the experiments. The charging and discharging time durations, mean power and energy efficiency are estimated to evaluate the performance of the LHTES system. Meanwhile, a three-dimensional (3D) numerical model is developed based on the enthalpy-porosity model and two-temperature energy equations to investigate the thermal energy storage and retrieval of the LHTES system, and the detailed heat transfer characteristics during the melting/solidification of the PCM are understood. The results indicate that encapsulating molten salt with nickel foam to enhance the effective thermal conductivity of the PCM can improve the performance of the LHTES system. The information provided in the present study will be helpful for the LHTES system design, construction and application using molten salt for solar energy storage.
Keywords: Latent heat thermal energy storage; Nitrate molten salt; Nickel foam; Heat transfer characteristics; Thermal energy storage and retrieval

Leon Derczynski, Jannik Strötgen, Ricardo Campos, Omar Alonso, Time and information retrieval: Introduction to the special issue, Information Processing & Management, Volume 51, Issue 6, November 2015, Pages 786-790, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2015.05.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457315000539)

Xiang-Yang Wang, Lin-Lin Liang, Wei-Yi Li, Dong-Ming Li, Hong-Ying Yang, A new SVM-based relevance feedback image retrieval using probabilistic feature and weighted kernel function, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 38, July 2016, Pages 256-275, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2016.03.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320316300128)
Abstract: Abstract
Relevance feedback (RF) is an effective approach to bridge the gap between low-level visual features and high-level semantic meanings in content-based image retrieval (CBIR). The support vector machine (SVM) based RF mechanisms have been used in different fields of image retrieval, but they often treat all positive and negative feedback samples equally, which will inevitably degrade the effectiveness of SVM-based RF approaches for CBIR. In fact, positive and negative feedback samples, different positive feedback samples, and different negative feedback samples all always have distinct properties. Moreover, each feedback interaction process is usually tedious and time-consuming because of complex visual features, so if too many times of iteration of feedback are asked, users may be impatient to interact with the CBIR system. To overcome the above limitations, we propose a new SVM-based RF approach using probabilistic feature and weighted kernel function in this paper. Firstly, the probabilistic features of each image are extracted by using principal components analysis (PCA) and the adapted Gaussian mixture models (AGMM) based dimension reduction, and the similarity is computed by employing Kullback–Leibler divergence. Secondly, the positive feedback samples and negative feedback samples are marked, and all feedback samples’ weight values are computed by utilizing the samples-based Relief feature weighting. Finally, the SVM kernel function is modified dynamically according to the feedback samples’ weight values. Extensive simulations on large databases show that the proposed algorithm is significantly more effective than the state-of-the-art approaches.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Relevance feedback; Support vector machine; Adapted Gaussian mixture models; Kernel function weighting

Tyler M. Miller, Lisa Geraci, The influence of retrieval practice on metacognition: The contribution of analytic and non-analytic processes, Consciousness and Cognition, Volume 42, May 2016, Pages 41-50, ISSN 1053-8100, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.concog.2016.03.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S105381001630037X)
Abstract: Abstract
People may change their memory predictions after retrieval practice using naïve theories of memory and/or by using subjective experience – analytic and non-analytic processes respectively. The current studies disentangled contributions of each process. In one condition, learners studied paired-associates, made a memory prediction, completed a short-run of retrieval practice and made a second prediction. In another condition, judges read about a yoked learners’ retrieval practice performance but did not participate in retrieval practice and therefore, could not use non-analytic processes for the second prediction. In Study 1, learners reduced their predictions following moderately difficult retrieval practice whereas judges increased their predictions. In Study 2, learners made lower adjusted predictions than judges following both easy and difficult retrieval practice. In Study 3, judge-like participants used analytic processes to report adjusted predictions. Overall, the results suggested non-analytic processes play a key role for participants to reduce their predictions after retrieval practice.
Keywords: Metacognition; Overconfidence; Retrieval practice; Inferential processes

Tomás Mardones, Héctor Allende, Claudio Moraga, Leveraging similarities and structure for dense representations combination in image retrieval, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 38, July 2016, Pages 641-657, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2016.04.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320316300451)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper addresses the problem of content-based image retrieval in a large-scale setting. Recently several graph-based image retrieval systems have been proposed to fuse different representations, with excellent results. However, most of them use one very precise representation, which does not scale as well as global dense representations with an increasing number of images, hurting time and memory requirements as the database grows. We researched how to attain a comparable precision, while greatly reducing the memory and time requirements by avoiding the use of a main precise representation. To accomplish this objective, we proposed a novel graph-based query fusion approach—where we combined several compact representations based on aggregating local descriptors such as Fisher Vectors—using distance and neighborhood information jointly to evaluate the individual importance of each element in a query adaptive manner. The performance was analyzed in different time and memory constrained scenarios, ranging from less than a second to several seconds for the complete search process while needing only a fraction of the memory compared to other similar performing methods. Experiments were performed on 4 public datasets, namely UKBench, Holidays, Corel-5K and MIRFLICKR-1M, obtaining state-of-the-art effectiveness.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Fisher Vector; Global dense representation; Image search; Graph based combination; Re-ranking; Product Quantization

Etsushi Iwamura, Kazuo Yamada, Yukio Ichitani, Involvement of hippocampal NMDA receptors in retrieval of spontaneous object recognition memory in rats, Behavioural Brain Research, Volume 307, 1 July 2016, Pages 92-99, ISSN 0166-4328, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbr.2016.03.048.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166432816301851)
Abstract: Abstract
The involvement of hippocampal N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the retrieval process of spontaneous object recognition memory was investigated. The spontaneous object recognition test consisted of three phases. In the sample phase, rats were exposed to two identical objects several (2–5) times in the arena. After the sample phase, various lengths of delay intervals (24 h-6 weeks) were inserted (delay phase). In the test phase in which both the familiar and the novel objects were placed in the arena, rats’ novel object exploration behavior under the hippocampal treatment of NMDA receptor antagonist, AP5, or vehicle was observed. With 5 exposure sessions in the sample phase (experiment 1), AP5 treatment in the test phase significantly decreased discrimination ratio when the delay was 3 weeks but not when it was one week. On the other hand, with 2 exposure sessions in the sample phase (experiment 2) in which even vehicle-injected control animals could not discriminate the novel object from the familiar one with a 3 week delay, AP5 treatment significantly decreased discrimination ratio when the delay was one week, but not when it was 24 h. Additional experiment (experiment 3) showed that the hippocampal treatment of an α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist, NBQX, decreased discrimination ratio with all delay intervals tested (24 h-3 weeks). Results suggest that hippocampal NMDA receptors play an important role in the retrieval of spontaneous object recognition memory especially when the memory trace weakens.
Keywords: Spontaneous object recognition memory; Retrieval; Hippocampus; NMDA receptor; AMPA receptor; Rats

Ke Lu, Qian Wang, Jian Xue, Weiguo Pan, 3D model retrieval and classification by semi-supervised learning with content-based similarity, Information Sciences, Volume 281, 10 October 2014, Pages 703-713, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2014.03.079.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025514003703)
Abstract: Abstract
The rapid development of 3D digital technology has led to an increasing volume of 3D model data. In addressing the management of such large scale data, effective content-based 3D model retrieval and recognition methods are highly desirable. In 3D model retrieval and recognition tasks, the distance measure between two 3D models plays an important role. In this paper, we propose a novel 3D model retrieval and recognition method that employs both a distance histogram and 3D moment invariants as features that are invariant to 3D object scaling, translation, and rotation. Disjoint information is used to measure the distance between the feature histograms, and the Euclidean distance is applied in calculating the distance between two moment features. These measures are then combined as the 3D model distance. Using this distance measure, the relationships between all 3D models in the dataset are formulated as a graph structure. A semi-supervised learning process is then conducted to estimate the relevance among the 3D models, and this is employed for 3D model retrieval and classification. To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed method, we conduct experiments on two datasets. Experimental results and a comparison with state-of-the-art methods demonstrate that the proposed method achieves improved performance for 3D model retrieval and recognition tasks.
Keywords: 3D model retrieval; 3D model recognition; Distance measure; Disjoint information; Semi-supervised learning

K.A. de Graaf, P. Liang, A. Tang, H. van Vliet, How organisation of architecture documentation affects architectural knowledge retrieval, Science of Computer Programming, Volume 121, 1 June 2016, Pages 75-99, ISSN 0167-6423, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scico.2015.10.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167642315003172)
Abstract: Abstract
A common approach to software architecture documentation in industry projects is the use of file-based documents. This approach offers a single-dimensional arrangement of the architectural knowledge. Knowledge retrieval from file-based architecture documentation is efficient if the organisation of knowledge supports the needs of the readers; otherwise it can be difficult. In this paper, we compare the organisation and retrieval of architectural knowledge in a file-based documentation approach and an ontology-based documentation approach. The ontology-based approach offers a multi-dimensional organisation of architectural knowledge by means of a software ontology and semantic wiki, whereas file-based documentation typically uses hierarchical organisation by directory structure and table of content. We conducted case studies in two companies to study the efficiency and effectiveness of retrieving architectural knowledge from the different organisations of knowledge. We found that the use of better knowledge organisation correlates with the efficiency and effectiveness of AK retrieval. Professionals who used the knowledge organisation found this beneficial.
Keywords: Software architecture documentation; Architectural knowledge retrieval; Software ontologies; Semantic wiki; Ontology-based documentation

Andrew C. Butler, Heather J. Rice, Cynthia L. Wooldridge, David C. Rubin, Visual imagery in autobiographical memory: The role of repeated retrieval in shifting perspective, Consciousness and Cognition, Volume 42, May 2016, Pages 237-253, ISSN 1053-8100, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.concog.2016.03.018.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053810016300472)
Abstract: Abstract
Recent memories are generally recalled from a first-person perspective whereas older memories are often recalled from a third-person perspective. We investigated how repeated retrieval affects the availability of visual information, and whether it could explain the observed shift in perspective with time. In Experiment 1, participants performed mini-events and nominated memories of recent autobiographical events in response to cue words. Next, they described their memory for each event and rated its phenomenological characteristics. Over the following three weeks, they repeatedly retrieved half of the mini-event and cue-word memories. No instructions were given about how to retrieve the memories. In Experiment 2, participants were asked to adopt either a first- or third-person perspective during retrieval. One month later, participants retrieved all of the memories and again provided phenomenology ratings. When first-person visual details from the event were repeatedly retrieved, this information was retained better and the shift in perspective was slowed.
Keywords: Autobiographical memory; Visual imagery; Visual perspective; Retrieval

Maria Eskevich, Gareth J.F. Jones, Exploring speech retrieval from meetings using the AMI corpus, Computer Speech & Language, Volume 28, Issue 5, September 2014, Pages 1021-1044, ISSN 0885-2308, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csl.2013.12.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0885230813001186)
Abstract: Abstract
Increasing amounts of informal spoken content are being collected, e.g. recordings of meetings, lectures and personal data sources. The amount of this content being captured and the difficulties of manually searching audio data mean that efficient automated search tools are of increasing importance if its full potential is to be realized. Much existing work on speech search has focused on retrieval of clearly defined document units in ad hoc search tasks. We investigate search of informal speech content using an extended version of the AMI meeting collection. A retrieval collection was constructed by augmenting the AMI corpus with a set of ad hoc search requests and manually identified relevant regions of the recorded meetings. Unlike standard ad hoc information retrieval focussing primarily on precision, we assume a recall-focused search scenario of a user seeking to retrieve a particular incident occurring within meetings relevant to the query. We explore the relationship between automatic speech recognition (ASR) accuracy, automated segmentation of the meeting into retrieval units and retrieval behaviour with respect to both precision and recall. Experimental retrieval results show that while averaged retrieval effectiveness is generally comparable in terms of precision for automatically extracted segments for manual content transcripts and ASR transcripts with high recognition accuracy, segments with poor recognition quality become very hard to retrieve and may fall below the retrieval rank position to which a user is willing search. These changes impact on system effectiveness for recall-focused search tasks. Varied ASR quality across the relevant and non-relevant data means that the rank of some well-recognized relevant segments is actually promoted for ASR transcripts compared to manual ones. This effect is not revealed by the averaged precision based retrieval evaluation metrics typically used for evaluation of speech retrieval. However such variations in the ranks of relevant segments can impact considerably on the experience of the user in terms of the order in which retrieved content is presented. Analysis of our results reveals that while relevant longer segments are generally more robust to ASR errors, and consequentially retrieved at higher ranks, this is often at the expense of the user needing to engage in longer content playback to locate the relevant content in the audio recording. Our overall conclusion being that it is desirable to minimize the length of retrieval units containing relevant content while seeking to maintain high ranking of these items.
Keywords: Speech retrieval; Recall-focused information retrieval; Informal spoken content search; Retrieval unit segmentation

Jing-Ming Guo, Heri Prasetyo, Hua Lee, Chen-Chieh Yao, Image retrieval using indexed histogram of Void-and-Cluster Block Truncation Coding, Signal Processing, Volume 123, June 2016, Pages 143-156, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2015.11.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168415003898)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a simple approach to improve the image retrieval accuracy in the Void-and-Cluster Block Truncation Coding compressed domain. The proposed approach directly derives an image descriptor from the Ordered Dither Block Truncation Coding (ODBTC) data stream without performing the decoding process. The Color Histogram Feature (CHF) is generated from the two ODBTC color quantizer, while the Halftoning Local Derivative Pattern (HLDP) is constructed from the ODBTC bitmap image. The similarity between two images are measured from their CHF and HLDP features. Three schemes are involved to improve the image retrieval accuracy, including the similarity weight optimization, feature reweighting, and user relevance feedback optimization. An evolutionary stochastic algorithm is exploited to optimize the similarity weight and feature weight in the nearest neighbor distance computation, as well as in the query update of relevance feedback optimization. Section 5 shows that the proposed scheme yields a promising result, and thus it can be a very effective candidate in addressing the content-based image retrieval and image classification task.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Ordered Dither Block Truncation Coding; Similarity weight; Feature reweighting; Relevance feedback

Mihai Lupu, Jimmy Huang, Jianhan Zhu, John Tait, TREC chemical information retrieval – An initial evaluation effort for chemical IR systems, World Patent Information, Volume 33, Issue 3, September 2011, Pages 248-256, ISSN 0172-2190, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wpi.2011.03.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0172219011000536)
Abstract: There is little need to emphasize the importance of chemoinformatics and chemical information retrieval. However, what seems to require a lot more effort in convincing members of the community is the need for standardized evaluation procedures and measures. How confident are we, as users, that the search tools we used have given us all the information that we were looking for? It is unrealistic to believe a marketing campaign which claims that a specific patent IR (information retrieval) system can find all relevant results for a search topic. And if we don’t trust marketing campaigns, how can we get an idea of what to expect from a patent search engine?

One of the most prominent initiatives to work in this direction, of evaluating chemical IR tools, has started in 2009 with the support of NIST (National Institute for Standards and Technology): the TREC Chemical IR Track focuses on evaluation of search technologies for retrieval and knowledge discovery of digitally stored information on chemical patents and academic journal articles on chemistry. This paper describes our 2009 experience, presents the official results of the participating groups, and lays down the targets for 2010.
Keywords: TREC; Chemical IR; Patent retrieval; Evaluation; Measures

Taylor James, Jonathan Strunk, Jason Arndt, Audrey Duarte, Age-related deficits in selective attention during encoding increase demands on episodic reconstruction during context retrieval: An ERP study, Neuropsychologia, Volume 86, June 2016, Pages 66-79, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2016.04.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393216301178)
Abstract: Abstract
Previous event-related potential (ERP) and neuroimaging evidence suggests that directing attention toward single item-context associations compared to intra-item features at encoding improves context memory performance and reduces demands on strategic retrieval operations in young and older adults. In everyday situations, however, there are multiple event features competing for our attention. It is not currently known how selectively attending to one contextual feature while attempting to ignore another influences context memory performance and the processes that support successful retrieval in the young and old. We investigated this issue in the current ERP study. Young and older participants studied pictures of objects in the presence of two contextual features: a color and a scene, and their attention was directed to the object's relationship with one of those contexts. Participants made context memory decisions for both attended and unattended contexts and rated their confidence in those decisions. Behavioral results showed that while both groups were generally successful in applying selective attention during context encoding, older adults were less confident in their context memory decisions for attended features and showed greater dependence in context memory accuracy for attended and unattended contextual features (i.e., hyper-binding). ERP results were largely consistent between age groups but older adults showed a more pronounced late posterior negativity (LPN) implicated in episodic reconstruction processes. We conclude that age-related suppression deficits during encoding result in reduced selectivity in context memory, thereby increasing subsequent demands on episodic reconstruction processes when sought after details are not readily retrieved.
Keywords: Attention; Context memory; Retrieval; Aging; ERPs; LPN

Amitabha Chatterjee, Chapter E - Organization of Information, In Elements of Information Organization and Dissemination, Chandos Publishing, 2017, Pages 95-98, ISBN 9780081020258, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-08-102025-8.00005-3.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780081020258000053)
Abstract: Abstract
For providing efficient, effective, and speedy information service, the information collected from the information sources need to be properly organized. The activities relating to such organization may be called information organization or documentation work. There are two phases of information organization, viz., identification of user need and compilation of information retrieval aids/IACR products. There are different varieties of information retrieval aids/IACR products. Compilation of information retrieval aids/IACR products mainly proceeds in three stages: identification and location of relevant literature, analysis of relevant literature, and organization of analyzed information. Presently, information retrieval aids/IACR products are brought out not only by libraries/information centers, but also many commercial publishers.
Keywords: Information organization; documentation work; information need identification; information retrieval aid

Piray Atsak, Friederike M. Guenzel, Deniz Kantar-Gok, Ioannis Zalachoras, Piraye Yargicoglu, Onno C. Meijer, Gina L. Quirarte, Oliver T. Wolf, Lars Schwabe, Benno Roozendaal, Glucocorticoids mediate stress-induced impairment of retrieval of stimulus-response memory, Psychoneuroendocrinology, Volume 67, May 2016, Pages 207-215, ISSN 0306-4530, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psyneuen.2016.02.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306453016300361)
Abstract: Abstract
Acute stress and elevated glucocorticoid hormone levels are well known to impair the retrieval of hippocampus-dependent ‘declarative’ memory. Recent findings suggest that stress might also impair the retrieval of non-hippocampal memories. In particular, stress shortly before retention testing was shown to impair the retrieval of striatal stimulus-response associations in humans. However, the mechanism underlying this stress-induced retrieval impairment of non-hippocampal stimulus-response memory remains elusive. In the present study, we investigated whether an acute elevation in glucocorticoid levels mediates the impairing effects of stress on retrieval of stimulus-response memory. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained on a stimulus-response task in an eight-arm radial maze until they learned to associate a stimulus, i.e., cue, with a food reward in one of the arms. Twenty-four hours after successful acquisition, they received a systemic injection of vehicle, corticosterone (1 mg/kg), the corticosterone-synthesis inhibitor metyrapone (35 mg/kg) or were left untreated 1 h before retention testing. We found that the corticosterone injection impaired the retrieval of stimulus-response memory. We further found that the systemic injection procedure per se was stressful as the vehicle administration also increased plasma corticosterone levels and impaired the retrieval of stimulus-response memory. However, memory retrieval was not impaired when rats were tested 2 min after the systemic vehicle injection, before any stress-induced elevation in corticosterone levels had occurred. Moreover, metyrapone treatment blocked the effect of injection stress on both plasma corticosterone levels and memory retrieval impairment, indicating that the endogenous corticosterone response mediates the stress-induced memory retrieval impairment. None of the treatments affected rats’ locomotor activity or motivation to search for the food reward within the maze. These findings show that stress may affect memory processes beyond the hippocampus and that these stress effects are due to the action of glucocorticoids.
Keywords: Stimulus-response memory; Striatum; Retrieval; Stress; Glucocorticoids; Metyrapone

Wei-Zhi Nie, An-An Liu, Yu-Ting Su, 3D object retrieval based on sparse coding in weak supervision, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 37, May 2016, Pages 40-45, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2015.06.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320315001108)
Abstract: Abstract
With the rapid development of computer vision and digital capture equipment, we can easily record the 3D information of objects. In the recent years, more and more 3D data are generated, which makes it desirable to develop effective 3D retrieval algorithms. In this paper, we apply the sparse coding method in a weakly supervision manner to address 3D model retrieval. First, each 3D object, which is represented by a set of 2D images, is used to learn dictionary. Then, sparse coding is used to compute the reconstruction residual for each query object. Finally, the residual between the query model and the candidate model is used for 3D model retrieval. In the experiment, ETH, NTU and ALOL dataset are used to evaluate the performance of the proposed method. The results demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method.
Keywords: 3D model retrieval; Sparse representation; Dictionary learning; Fisher discrimination; Weak supervision; Characteristic view extraction; Similarity measure; View-based model

Tao Yao, Xiangwei Kong, Haiyan Fu, Qi Tian, Semantic consistency hashing for cross-modal retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 193, 12 June 2016, Pages 250-259, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.02.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092523121600196X)
Abstract: Abstract
The task of cross-modal retrieval is to query similar objects in dataset of multi-modality, such as using text to query images and vice versa. However, most of existing works suffer from high computational complexity and storage cost in large-scale applications. Recently, hashing method mapping the high-dimensional data to compact binary codes has attracted a lot of concerns due to its efficiency and low storage cost over large-scale dataset. In this paper, we propose a Semantic Consistency Hashing (SCH) method for cross-modal retrieval. SCH learns a shared semantic space simultaneously taking both inter-modal and intra-modal semantic correlations into account. In order to preserve the inter-modal semantic consistency, an identical representation is learned using non-negative matrix factorization for the samples with different modalities. Meanwhile, neighbor preserving algorithm is adopted to preserve the semantic consistency in each modality. In addition, an effective optimal algorithm is proposed to reduce the time complexity from traditional O ( N 2 ) or higher to O(N). Extensive experiments on two public datasets demonstrate that the proposed approach significantly outperforms the existing schemes.
Keywords: Cross-modal retrieval; Semantic consistency; Hashing; Non-negative matrix factorization; Neighbor preserving

Meng Zhao, Huaxiang Zhang, Jiande Sun, A novel image retrieval method based on multi-trend structure descriptor, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 38, July 2016, Pages 73-81, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2016.02.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320316300049)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper proposes an image feature representation method, namely Multi-Trend Structure Descriptor (MTSD), which is built based on the local and multi-trend structures. The local structures can be regarded as the basic units for image analysis, and the multi-trend structures are introduced to explore the correlation among pixels in local structures according to the information change of pixels. The visual information such as color, edge orientation and intensity map are considered and quantized, and with the local structure as a bridge, we use multi-trend to detect color, edge orientation and intensity map respectively for feature extraction. MTSD can characterize not only the low-level features, such as color, shape and texture, but also the local spatial structure information. We evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithm on Corel and Caltech datasets, and experimental results demonstrate that, MTSD significantly outperforms texton co-occurrence matrix, multi-texton histogram, micro-structure descriptor and saliency structure histogram.
Keywords: Multi-trend structure descriptor; Image retrieval; Visual perception mechanism; Local descriptor

Jane Mills, Karen Francis, Margaret McLeod, Mohammad Al-Motlaq, Enhancing computer literacy and information retrieval skills: A rural and remote nursing and midwifery workforce study, Collegian, Volume 22, Issue 3, September 2015, Pages 283-289, ISSN 1322-7696, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.colegn.2014.02.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1322769614000213)
Abstract: Summary
Nurses and midwives collectively, represent the largest workforce category in rural and remote areas of Australia. Maintaining currency of practice and attaining annual licensure with the Australian Health Practitioners Regulatory Authority (AHPRA) present challenges for individual nurses and midwives and for their health service managers. Engagement with information and communication technologies, in order for geographically isolated clinicians to access ongoing education and training, is considered a useful strategy to address such challenges.

This paper presents a pre- and post-test study design. It examines the impact of an online continuing professional development (CPD) program on Australian rural nurses and midwives. The aims of the program were to increase basic skill acquisition in the utilisation of common computer software, the use of the Internet and the enhancement of email communication.

Findings from the study demonstrate that participants who complete a relevant CPD program gain confidence in the use of information and communication technologies. Further, increased confidence leads to increased access to contemporary, reliable and important health care information on the Internet, in addition to clinicians adopting email as a regular method of communication.

Health care employers commonly assume employees are skilled users of information and communication technologies. However, findings from this study contradict such assumptions. It is argued in the recommendations that health care employees should be given regular access to CPD programs designed to introduce them to information and communication technologies. Developing knowledge and skills in this area has the potential to improve staff productivity, raise health care standards and improve patient outcomes.
Keywords: Australian rural nurses and midwives; Health care informatics; Continuing professional development; Currency of practice

E. Nikitidou, A. Kazantzidis, P. Tzoumanikas, V. Salamalikis, A.F. Bais, Retrieval of surface solar irradiance, based on satellite-derived cloud information, in Greece, Energy, Volume 90, Part 1, October 2015, Pages 776-783, ISSN 0360-5442, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2015.07.103.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544215009986)
Abstract: Abstract
Cloud properties derived from the SEVIRI (Spinning Enhanced Visible and Infrared Imager) instrument, on board the MSG (Meteosat Second Generation) satellite, have been used to retrieve the surface global solar irradiance incident on a horizontal surface GHI (global horizontal irradiance) and the DNI (direct normal irradiance) with a temporal resolution of 15 min. The daily amount of solar energy as well as monthly and annual sums, are estimated. Based on a 6-year study period (2008–2013), a monthly climatology is derived. Results are compared with ground-based measurements in Greece. Comparison shows a general good agreement between satellite and ground data, with the highest differences occurring in cases of broken or very thick cloudiness. The highest collected monthly solar energy values are found during summer months, in Southern Peloponnese, Crete and Cyclades islands, and exceed 250 kWh m−2. The annual average energy for GHI is 1400–1500 kWh m−2 in Northern Greece and up to 1900 kWh m−2 in Southern Peloponnese, Crete and the islands. For DNI, values increase to about 9% in Northern Greece and around 15% in Southern Greece.
Keywords: Solar energy; Global horizontal irradiance; Direct normal irradiance; Clouds; Satellite

Yingying Zhu, Xiaoyan Huang, Qiang Huang, Qi Tian, Large-scale video copy retrieval with temporal-concentration SIFT, Neurocomputing, Volume 187, 26 April 2016, Pages 83-91, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.09.114.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215017336)
Abstract: Abstract
The scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT) feature plays a very important role in multimedia content analysis, such as near-duplicate image and video retrieval. However, the storage and query costs of SIFT become unbearable for large-scale databases. In this paper, SIFT features are robustly encoded with temporal information by tracking the SIFT to generate temporal-concentration SIFT (TCSIFT), which highly compresses the quantity of local features to reduce visual redundancy, and keeps the advantages of SIFT as much as possible at the same time. On the basis of TCSIFT, a novel framework for large-scale video copy retrieval is proposed in which the processes of retrieval and validation are implemented at the feature and frame level. Experimental results for two different datasets, i.e., CC_WEB_VIDEO and TRECVID, demonstrate that our method can yield comparable accuracy, compact storage size, and more efficient execution time, as well as adapt to various video transformations.
Keywords: Video copy retrieval; SIFT; Spatio-temporal features; Frame validation

James E. Kragel, Youssef Ezzyat, Michael R. Sperling, Richard Gorniak, Gregory A. Worrell, Brent M. Berry, Cory Inman, Jui-Jui Lin, Kathryn A. Davis, Sandhitsu R. Das, Joel M. Stein, Barbara C. Jobst, Kareem A. Zaghloul, Sameer A. Sheth, Daniel S. Rizzuto, Michael J. Kahana, Similar patterns of neural activity predict memory function during encoding and retrieval, NeuroImage, Volume 155, 15 July 2017, Pages 60-71, ISSN 1053-8119, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.03.042.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811917302549)
Abstract: Abstract
Neural networks that span the medial temporal lobe (MTL), prefrontal cortex, and posterior cortical regions are essential to episodic memory function in humans. Encoding and retrieval are supported by the engagement of both distinct neural pathways across the cortex and common structures within the medial temporal lobes. However, the degree to which memory performance can be determined by neural processing that is common to encoding and retrieval remains to be determined. To identify neural signatures of successful memory function, we administered a delayed free-recall task to 187 neurosurgical patients implanted with subdural or intraparenchymal depth electrodes. We developed multivariate classifiers to identify patterns of spectral power across the brain that independently predicted successful episodic encoding and retrieval. During encoding and retrieval, patterns of increased high frequency activity in prefrontal, MTL, and inferior parietal cortices, accompanied by widespread decreases in low frequency power across the brain predicted successful memory function. Using a cross-decoding approach, we demonstrate the ability to predict memory function across distinct phases of the free-recall task. Furthermore, we demonstrate that classifiers that combine information from both encoding and retrieval states can outperform task-independent models. These findings suggest that the engagement of a core memory network during either encoding or retrieval shapes the ability to remember the past, despite distinct neural interactions that facilitate encoding and retrieval.
Keywords: iEEG; MVPA; Free recall; Episodic memory

Antonios Danelakis, Theoharis Theoharis, Ioannis Pratikakis, Panagiotis Perakis, An effective methodology for dynamic 3D facial expression retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Volume 52, April 2016, Pages 174-185, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2015.10.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S003132031500391X)
Abstract: Abstract
The problem of facial expression recognition in dynamic sequences of 3D face scans has received a significant amount of attention in the recent past whereas the problem of retrieval in this type of data has not. A novel retrieval methodology for such data is introduced in this paper. The proposed methodology automatically detects specific facial landmarks and uses them to create a descriptor. This descriptor is the concatenation of three sub-descriptors which capture topological as well as geometric information of the 3D face scans. The motivation behind the proposed hybrid facial expression descriptor is the fact that some facial expressions, like happiness and surprise, are characterized by obvious changes in the mouth topology while others, like anger, fear and sadness, produce geometric but no significant topological changes. The proposed retrieval scheme exploits the Dynamic Time Warping technique in order to compare descriptors corresponding to different 3D facial sequences. A detailed evaluation of the introduced retrieval scheme is presented showing that it outperforms previous state-of-the-art retrieval schemes. Experiments have been conducted using the six prototypical expressions of the standard dataset BU-4DFE and the eight prototypical expressions of the recently available dataset BP4D-Spontaneous. Finally, a majority voting scheme based on the retrieval results is used to achieve unsupervised dynamic 3D facial expression recognition. The achieved classification accuracy is comparable to the state-of-the-art supervised dynamic 3D facial expression recognition techniques.
Keywords: Dynamic 3D mesh sequence; 3D object retrieval; 4D facial expression retrieval; 4D facial expression recognition

Hassan Saneifar, Stéphane Bonniol, Pascal Poncelet, Mathieu Roche, Enhancing passage retrieval in log files by query expansion based on explicit and pseudo relevance feedback, Computers in Industry, Volume 65, Issue 6, August 2014, Pages 937-951, ISSN 0166-3615, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2014.02.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016636151400044X)
Abstract: Abstract
Passage retrieval is usually defined as the task of searching for passages which may contain the answer for a given query. While these approaches are very efficient when dealing with texts, applied to log files (i.e. semi-structured data containing both numerical and symbolic information) they usually provide irrelevant or useless results. Nevertheless one appealing way for improving the results could be to consider query expansions that aim at adding automatically or semi-automatically additional information in the query to improve the reliability and accuracy of the returned results. In this paper, we present a new approach for enhancing the relevancy of queries during a passage retrieval in log files. It is based on two relevance feedback steps. In the first one, we determine the explicit relevance feedback by identifying the context of the requested information within a learning process. The second step is a new kind of pseudo relevance feedback. Based on a novel term weighting measure it aims at assigning a weight to terms according to their relatedness to queries. This measure, called TRQ (Term Relatedness to Query), is used to identify the most relevant expansion terms.

The main advantage of our approach is that is can be applied both on log files and documents from general domains. Experiments conducted on real data from logs and documents show that our query expansion protocol enables retrieval of relevant passages.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Passage retrieval; Question answering; Query enrichment; Context learning; Log files

Ali R. Hurson, Sahra Sedigh Sarvestani, Mike Wisely, Energy-efficient algorithms for data retrieval from indexed parallel broadcast channels, Sustainable Computing: Informatics and Systems, Volume 10, June 2016, Pages 20-35, ISSN 2210-5379, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.suscom.2016.03.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2210537915300032)
Abstract: Abstract
Constraints on the energy, bandwidth, and connectivity of mobile devices and wireless communication medium complicate the timely and reliable access to public data. Energy is often the most stringent constraint, necessitating techniques that facilitate operation in energy-saving modes. Broadcasting, typically over parallel channels, has proven to be an effective method for dissemination of public data to mobile devices. However, the employment of parallel channels introduces challenges associated with channel switching and conflicts due to concurrent accesses to multiple data items that ultimately increase energy consumption and response time. The detrimental effects on energy consumption and response time can be alleviated by scheduling the retrieval of data items in an order that reduces the number of passes over the air channels and channel switching between the parallel channels.

In this paper, several scheduling algorithms are proposed and analyzed that achieve the aforementioned objectives. To further improve energy consumption and response time, the scope of our scheduling algorithms has been enhanced by replication of popular data items. The proposed scheduling algorithms, both with and without replication, have been simulated, and simulation results are presented and analyzed. These results show that the proposed scheduling algorithms, compared to some heuristic based methods, have greater impact in reducing energy consumption and response time. This reduction is shown to be more pronounced with replication of data items.
Keywords: Algorithm/protocol design and analysis; Query processing; Retrieval models; Ubiquitous computing; Energy management; Broadcasting

Jarosław Jasiewicz, Paweł Netzel, Tomasz Stepinski, GeoPAT: A toolbox for pattern-based information retrieval from large geospatial databases, Computers & Geosciences, Volume 80, July 2015, Pages 62-73, ISSN 0098-3004, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cageo.2015.04.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0098300415000758)
Abstract: Abstract
Geospatial Pattern Analysis Toolbox (GeoPAT) is a collection of GRASS GIS modules for carrying out pattern-based geospatial analysis of images and other spatial datasets. The need for pattern-based analysis arises when images/rasters contain rich spatial information either because of their very high resolution or their very large spatial extent. Elementary units of pattern-based analysis are scenes – patches of surface consisting of a complex arrangement of individual pixels (patterns). GeoPAT modules implement popular GIS algorithms, such as query, overlay, and segmentation, to operate on the grid of scenes. To achieve these capabilities GeoPAT includes a library of scene signatures – compact numerical descriptors of patterns, and a library of distance functions – providing numerical means of assessing dissimilarity between scenes. Ancillary GeoPAT modules use these functions to construct a grid of scenes or to assign signatures to individual scenes having regular or irregular geometries. Thus GeoPAT combines knowledge retrieval from patterns with mapping tasks within a single integrated GIS environment. GeoPAT is designed to identify and analyze complex, highly generalized classes in spatial datasets. Examples include distinguishing between different styles of urban settlements using VHR images, delineating different landscape types in land cover maps, and mapping physiographic units from DEM. The concept of pattern-based spatial analysis is explained and the roles of all modules and functions are described. A case study example pertaining to delineation of landscape types in a subregion of NLCD is given. Performance evaluation is included to highlight GeoPAT's applicability to very large datasets. The GeoPAT toolbox is available for download from http://sil.uc.edu/.
Keywords: Pattern analysis; Query-by-example; Large geospatial datasets; Similarity; Image classification; GRASS GIS

Xia Li, Lei Zhang, Xianjie Cao, Jiannong Quan, Tianhe Wang, Jiening Liang, Jinsen Shi, Retrieval of precipitable water vapor using MFRSR and comparison with other multisensors over the semi-arid area of northwest China, Atmospheric Research, Volumes 172–173, 15 May–1 June 2016, Pages 83-94, ISSN 0169-8095, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosres.2015.12.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169809515004056)
Abstract: Abstract
Precipitable water vapor (PWV) was retrieved using direct solar irradiance at 938 nm measured by a multifilter rotating shadowband radiometer (MFRSR) at the Semi-Arid Climate and Environment Observatory of Lanzhou University (SACOL) located in the semi-arid area of northwest China from August 2007 to June 2010. Measurement also occurred at Zhangye, China, at the Atmosphere Radiation Measurements (ARM) Program's Ancillary Facility during the dust period from April to June 2008. The line-by-line radiative transfer model (LBLRTM) code combined with the HITRAN 2004 spectral database is used to model the water vapor spectral transmittance throughout the 938-nm spectral response of MFRSR in the retrieval algorithm. Gaussian fitting is proposed to determine the daily calibration constant at the top of atmosphere for a long-term series under an obvious annual change in solar radiation.

PWV retrieved by MFRSR over SACOL shows that 90% of PWV values are smaller than 1.52 cm, and PWV distribution has a seasonal variation, with maximum in summer and minimum in winter. The comparisons between MFRSR and other measurements show a better agreement between MFRSR and sunphotometer (AERONET's Cimel) PWV retrievals with relative bias of 2.9% and RMS difference of 9.1% than between MFRSR and microwave radiometer (MWR) with relative bias of 10% and RMS difference of 23% over SACOL, and an excellent agreement between MFRSR and sunphotometer with relative bias of 0.56% and RMS difference of 6.1% over Zhangye.

To verify satellite PWV products over the semi-arid area of northwest China, the comparisons of PWV from MODIS and AIRS with MFRSR suggest that the agreement between satellite and MFRSR PWV retrievals is not as good as that between MFRSR and other ground-based instruments. MODIS appears to slightly underestimate PWV in a dry atmosphere but overestimate PWV in a moist atmosphere against MFRSR. A method is proposed to correct MODIS PWV products. AIRS PWV products relative to MFRSR show a systematic underestimation.
Keywords: MFRSR; Precipitable water vapor; Retrieval algorithm; Comparison

Konstantinos Zagoris, Kavallieratou Ergina, Nikos Papamarkos, Image retrieval systems based on compact shape descriptor and relevance feedback information, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 22, Issue 5, July 2011, Pages 378-390, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2011.03.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320311000368)
Abstract: One of the most important and most used low-level image feature is the shape employed in a variety of systems such as document image retrieval through word spotting. In this paper an MPEG-like descriptor is proposed that contains conventional contour and region shape features with a wide applicability from any arbitrary shape to document retrieval through word spotting. Its size and storage requirements are kept to minimum without limiting its discriminating ability. In addition to that, a relevance feedback technique based on Support Vector Machines is provided that employs the proposed descriptor with the purpose to measure how well it performs with it. In order to evaluate the proposed descriptor it is compared against different descriptors at the MPEG-7 CE1 Set B database.
Keywords: Retrieval system; Document retrieval; Handwritten words; Word spotting; MPEG-7; Relevance feedback; Support Vector Machines; Shape

Jeffrey D. Johnson, Mason H. Price, Emily K. Leiker, Episodic retrieval involves early and sustained effects of reactivating information from encoding, NeuroImage, Volume 106, 1 February 2015, Pages 300-310, ISSN 1053-8119, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.11.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811914009306)
Abstract: Abstract
Several fMRI studies have shown a correspondence between the brain regions activated during encoding and retrieval, consistent with the view that memory retrieval involves hippocampally-mediated reinstatement of cortical activity. With the limited temporal resolution of fMRI, the precise timing of such reactivation is unclear, calling into question the functional significance of these effects. Whereas reactivation influencing retrieval should emerge with neural correlates of retrieval success, that signifying post-retrieval monitoring would trail retrieval. The present study employed EEG to provide a temporal landmark of retrieval success from which we could investigate the sub-trial time course of reactivation. Pattern-classification analyses revealed that early-onsetting reactivation differentiated the outcome of recognition-memory judgments and was associated with individual differences in behavioral accuracy, while reactivation was also evident in a sustained form later in the trial. The EEG findings suggest that, whereas prior fMRI findings could be interpreted as reflecting the contribution of reinstatement to retrieval success, they could also indicate the maintenance of episodic information in service of post-retrieval evaluation.
Keywords: Episodic memory; Recognition; EEG; Reinstatement; Reactivation; Confidence

Moshe Lewenstein, J. Ian Munro, Yakov Nekrich, Sharma V. Thankachan, Document retrieval with one wildcard, Theoretical Computer Science, Volume 635, 4 July 2016, Pages 94-101, ISSN 0304-3975, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tcs.2016.05.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304397516301608)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper we extend several well-known document listing problems to the case when documents contain a substring that approximately matches the query pattern. We study the scenario when the query string can contain a wildcard symbol that matches any alphabet symbol; all documents that match a query pattern with one wildcard must be enumerated. We describe a linear space data structure that reports all documents containing a substring P in O ( | P | + σ log ⁡ log ⁡ log ⁡ n + docc ) time, where σ is the alphabet size and docc is the number of listed documents. We also describe a succinct solution for this problem, as well as a solution for an extension of this problem. Furthermore our approach enables us to obtain an O ( n σ ) -space data structure that enumerates all documents containing both a pattern P 1 and a pattern P 2 in the special case when P 1 and P 2 differ in one symbol.
Keywords: Document retrieval; String searching; Wildcards; Compressed data structures

Neslihan Bayramoglu, A. Aydın Alatan, Comparison of 3D local and global descriptors for similarity retrieval of range data, Neurocomputing, Volume 184, 5 April 2016, Pages 13-27, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.08.105.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092523121501841X)
Abstract: Abstract
Recent improvements in scanning technologies such as consumer penetration of RGB-D cameras lead obtaining and managing range image databases practical. Hence, the need for describing and indexing such data arises. In this study, we focus on similarity indexing of range data among a database of range objects (range-to-range retrieval) by employing only single view depth information. We utilize feature based approaches both on local and global scales. However, the emphasis is on the local descriptors with their global representations. A comparative study with extensive experimental results is presented. In addition, we introduce a publicly available range object database which is large and has a high diversity that is suitable for similarity retrieval applications. The simulation results indicate competitive performance between local and global methods. While better complexity trade-off can be achieved with the global techniques, local methods perform better in distinguishing different parts of incomplete depth data.
Keywords: Range data retrieval; Local descriptors; Global descriptors; Similarity indexing; Single view depth data description

Jianyu Yang, Haoran Xu, Metric learning based object recognition and retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 190, 19 May 2016, Pages 70-81, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.01.032.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216000795)
Abstract: Abstract
Object recognition and retrieval is an important topic in intelligent robotics and pattern recognition, where an effective recognition engine plays an important role. To achieve a good performance, we propose a metric learning based object recognition algorithm. To represent the invariant object features, including local shape details and global body parts, a novel multi-scale invariant descriptor is proposed. Different types of invariant features are represented in multiple scales, which makes the following metric learning algorithm effective. To reduce the effect of noise and improve the computing efficiency, an adaptive discrete contour evolution method is also proposed to extract the salient feature points of object. The recognition algorithm is explored based on metric learning method and the object features are summarized as histograms inspired from the Bag of Words (BoW). The metric learning methods are employed to learn object features according to their scales. The proposed method is invariant to rotation, scale variation, intra-class variation, articulated deformation and partial occlusion. The recognition process is fast and robust for noise. This method is evaluated on multiple benchmark datasets and the comparable experimental results indicate the effectiveness of our method.
Keywords: Metric learning; Object recognition; Object retrieval; Robot learning; Intelligent analysis

Alfonso Farruggia, Rosario Magro, Salvatore Vitabile, A text based indexing system for mammographic image retrieval and classification, Future Generation Computer Systems, Volume 37, July 2014, Pages 243-251, ISSN 0167-739X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2014.02.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X14000338)
Abstract: Abstract
In modern medical systems huge amount of text, words, images and videos are produced and stored in ad hoc databases. Medical community needs to extract precise information from that large amount of data. Currently ICT approaches do not provide a methodology for content-based medical images retrieval and classification. On the other hand, from the Internet of Things (IoT) perspective, the ICT medical data can be produced by several devices. Produced data complies with all Big Data features and constraints. The IoT guidelines put at the center of the system a new smart software to manage and transform Big Data in a new understanding form. This paper describes a text based indexing system for mammographic images retrieval and classification. The system deals with text (structured reports) and images (mammograms) mining and classification in a typical Department of Radiology. DICOM structured reports, containing free text for medical diagnosis, have been analyzed and labeled in order to classify the corresponding mammographic images. Information Retrieval process is based on some text manipulation techniques, such as light semantic analysis, stop-word removing, and light medical natural language processing. The system includes also a Search Engine module, based on a Bayes Naive Classifier. The experimental results provide interesting performance in terms of Specificity and Sensibility. Two more indexes have been computed in order to assess the system robustness: the A z (Area under ROC Curve) index and the σ A z ( A z standard error) index. The dataset is composed of healthy and pathological DICOM structured reports. Two use case scenarios are presented and described to prove the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Medical documents indexing and classification; Medical images indexing and classification

Nigel G. Ward, Steven D. Werner, Fernando Garcia, Emilio Sanchis, A prosody-based vector-space model of dialog activity for information retrieval, Speech Communication, Volume 68, April 2015, Pages 85-96, ISSN 0167-6393, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.specom.2015.01.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167639315000059)
Abstract: Abstract
Search in audio archives is a challenging problem. Using prosodic information to help find relevant content has been proposed as a complement to word-based retrieval, but its utility has been an open question. We propose a new way to use prosodic information in search, based on a vector-space model, where each point in time maps to a point in a vector space whose dimensions are derived from numerous prosodic features of the local context. Point pairs that are close in this vector space are frequently similar, not only in terms of the dialog activities, but also in topic. Using proximity in this space as an indicator of similarity, we built support for a query-by-example function. Searchers were happy to use this function, and it provided value on a large testset. Prosody-based retrieval did not perform as well as word-based retrieval, but the two sources of information were often non-redundant and in combination they sometimes performed better than either separately.
Keywords: Search; Speech; Audio; Similarity judgments; Similarity metrics; Principal components analysis

Yifan Yu, Lixin Xing, Jun Pan, Lijun Jiang, Hualiang Yu, Study of high temperature targets identification and temperature retrieval experimental model in SWIR remote sensing based Landsat8, International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation, Volume 46, April 2016, Pages 56-62, ISSN 0303-2434, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jag.2015.11.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0303243415300593)
Abstract: Abstract
For surface features in short-wave infrared (SWIR, 1.3–3.0 μm) in remote sensing imagery, pixel values depict the total energy including reflection and emission. For surface features at normal temperature in SWIR band, emission energy can be ignored. While for surface features at high temperature in SWIR band, emission energy is equal to or even higher than the reflection energy. So remote sensing imagery of SWIR band can be used to separate emission and reflection energy as well as to realize temperature retrieval of high temperature targets. In this study, the seventh band (SWIR band) of Landsat8 OLI remote sensing imagery is used to perform the theoretical model research for temperature retrieval of high temperature targets. In the meantime, it is also used with the corresponding observation experiment of synchronization satellite to check the theoretical model. The result shows that the radiant flux density for mixed pixels with high temperature targets is higher than adjacent pixels without high temperature targets. Thus, the high temperature pixels can be identified in SWIR band. The retrieval results of temperature and fractional area for high temperature targets are consistent with reality. In the study, the result illustrates that it is effective to identify high temperature targets in remote sensing imagery of SWIR band and the model is appropriate for temperature retrieval use.
Keywords: SWIR; High temperature targets; Temperature retrieval; Theoretical framework; Experimental model; Landsat8

Michael R. Dulas, Rachel N. Newsome, Audrey Duarte, The effects of aging on ERP correlates of source memory retrieval for self-referential information, Brain Research, Volume 1377, 4 March 2011, Pages 84-100, ISSN 0006-8993, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2010.12.087.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899311000084)
Abstract: Numerous behavioral studies have suggested that normal aging negatively affects source memory accuracy for various kinds of associations. Neuroimaging evidence suggests that less efficient retrieval processing (temporally delayed and attenuated) may contribute to these impairments. Previous aging studies have not compared source memory accuracy and corresponding neural activity for different kinds of source details; namely, those that have been encoded via a more or less effective strategy. Thus, it is not yet known whether encoding source details in a self-referential manner, a strategy suggested to promote successful memory in the young and old, may enhance source memory accuracy and reduce the commonly observed age-related changes in neural activity associated with source memory retrieval. Here, we investigated these issues by using event-related potentials (ERPs) to measure the effects of aging on the neural correlates of successful source memory retrieval (“old–new effects”) for objects encoded either self-referentially or self-externally. Behavioral results showed that both young and older adults demonstrated better source memory accuracy for objects encoded self-referentially. ERP results showed that old–new effects onsetted earlier for self-referentially encoded items in both groups and that age-related differences in the onset latency of these effects were reduced for self-referentially, compared to self-externally, encoded items. These results suggest that the implementation of an effective encoding strategy, like self-referential processing, may lead to more efficient retrieval, which in turn may improve source memory accuracy in both young and older adults.
Keywords: Aging; Source memory; EEG; Self-referential processing; Retrieval

Yanfen Li, Chunmin Zhang, Dongdong Liu, Jie Chen, Piao Rong, Xingying Zhang, Shupeng Wang, CO2 retrieval model and analysis in short-wave infrared spectrum, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 127, Issue 10, May 2016, Pages 4422-4425, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2016.01.144.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402616001935)
Abstract: Abstract
The global carbon dioxide hyperspectral remote sensing inversion system GF_VRTM is established for the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide remote sensing detection of GF-5 satellite. The validation and error analysis of global inversion is performed by using GF_VRTM with 21 June 2013 observation data of GOSAT-FTS in this study. The simulation results show that the CO2 averaged column concentrations (XCO2) overall trends are basically identical between GF_VRTM retrievals and GOSAT-FTS observations. There are 138 exposure points in whole observation points, and the relative error less than 2% is about 85%. The mean square error is 5.00 ppm, but the global average error is 1.09 ppm. If the assumption that GOSAT-FTS observation data is true, GF_VRTM satisfies the average precision requirements (less than 1%) of XCO2 global inversion. For the results of the comparison, the minimum error scenario and maximum error scenario are selected for error analysis. Error sources are smooth error, measurement noise error, the forward model parameter error and forward model error, respectively. For the minimum error scenario and maximum error scenario, the relative error of XCO2 inversion caused by smooth error and measurement noise error are 0.44% and −1.62%, respectively, and the relative error of XCO2 inversion caused by the forward model parameter error are −0.43% and −1.53%, respectively. At the same time, the forward model error is ignored.
Keywords: GF_VRTM; GOSAT-FTS; XCO2 retrieval; Error analysis

Hailei Liu, Shihao Tang, Juyang Hu, Shenglan Zhang, Xiaobo Deng, An improved physical split-window algorithm for precipitable water vapor retrieval exploiting the water vapor channel observations, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 194, 1 June 2017, Pages 366-378, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2017.03.031.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425717301347)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a new atmospheric precipitable water vapor (PWV) retrieval method based on three thermal infrared band observations from geostationary satellites. The proposed method is similar to the traditional physical split-window (PSW) retrieval technique, but a water vapor channel observation near 6.7 μm was included. Sensitivity analyses and simulation retrievals were carried out respectively according to the instrument characteristics of the Stretched Visible and Infrared Spin Scan Radiometer onboard FengYun-2G (SVISSR/FY-2G) and the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer aboard Terra (MODIS/Terra). The results indicate that the proposed 3-band algorithm can significantly reduce PWV retrieval errors caused by surface emissivity uncertainty and observation errors, especially in dry atmospheric conditions (i.e., PWV &lt; 2 cm). The proposed algorithm was validated using SVISSR/FY-2G and MODIS/Terra observations, and was compared with radiosonde and GPS PWV. The determination coefficient (R2), root mean square error (RMSE), and bias between the SVISSR retrieved PWV and the radiosonde PWV are 0.87, 0.43 cm and 0.14 cm, respectively. The R2, RMSE and bias of the MODIS retrieved PWV are 0.89, 0.10 cm and − 0.042 cm, respectively, which are slightly better than the MODIS L2 thermal infrared and near-infrared PWV products.
Keywords: PWV; Geostationary satellites; SVISSR; MODIS; Emissivity

Nate Kornell, Kalif E. Vaughn, Chapter Five - How Retrieval Attempts Affect Learning: A Review and Synthesis, In: Brian H. Ross, Editor(s), Psychology of Learning and Motivation, Academic Press, 2016, Volume 65, Pages 183-215, ISSN 0079-7421, ISBN 9780128047903, https://doi.org/10.1016/bs.plm.2016.03.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0079742116000165)
Abstract: Abstract
Attempting to recall information from memory (ie, retrieval practice) has been shown to enhance learning across a wide variety of materials, learners, and experimental conditions. We examine the moderating effects of what is arguably the most fundamental distinction to be made about retrieval: whether a retrieval attempt results in success or failure. After reviewing research on this topic, we conclude that retrieval practice is beneficial even when the retrieval attempt is unsuccessful. This finding appears to hold true in a variety of laboratory and real-world contexts and applies to learners across the lifespan. Based on these findings we outline a two-stage model in which learning from retrieval involves (1) a retrieval attempt and then (2) processing the answer. We then turn to a second issue: Does retrieval success even matter for learning? Recent findings suggest that retrieval failure followed by feedback leads to the same amount of learning as retrieval success. In light of these findings, we propose that separate mechanisms are not needed to explain the effect of retrieval success and retrieval failure on learning. We then review existing theories of retrieval and comment on their compatibility with extant data, and end with theoretical conclusions for researchers as well as practical advice for learners and teachers.
Keywords: Learning; Memory; Metacognitive awareness; Retrieval attempt; Retrieval success; Search set theory; Test-enhanced learning

Rossitza Setchi, Qiao Tang, Ivan Stankov, Semantic-based information retrieval in support of concept design, Advanced Engineering Informatics, Volume 25, Issue 2, April 2011, Pages 131-146, ISSN 1474-0346, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2010.07.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S147403461000073X)
Abstract: This research is motivated by the realisation that semantic technology can be used to develop computational tools in support of designers’ creativity by focusing on the inspirational stage of design. The paper describes a semantic-based image retrieval tool developed for the needs of concept cars designers from two renowned European companies. It is created to help them find and interpret sources of inspiration. The core innovation of the tool is its ability to provide a degree of diversity, ambiguity and uncertainty in the information gathering and idea generation process. The tool is based on the assumption that there is a semantic link between the images in a web page and the text around them. Furthermore, it uses the idea that the more frequently a term occurs in a document and the fewer documents it occurs in, the more representative this term is of that document. The new contribution is linking the most meaningful words in a document with ontological concepts, and then finding the most powerful set of concepts representing that document and consequently the images in it. This is based on the observation that monosemic words (with a single meaning) are more domain-oriented than polysemic ones (that have multiple meanings), and provide a greater amount of domain information. The tool tags images by first processing all significant words in the text around them, extracting all keywords and key phrases in it, ranking them according to their significance, and linking them to ontological concepts. It generates a set of concept numbers for each text, which is then used to retrieve information in a process called semantic expansion, where a keyword query is also processed semantically. The proposed approach is illustrated with examples using the tool developed for the needs of Stile Bertone and Fiat, Italy, two of the industrial partners in the TRENDS project sponsored by the European Community.
Keywords: Concept design; Creativity; Inspiration; Image retrieval; Semantic technology; Semantics

Chao Ma, Xiaokang Yang, Chongyang Zhang, Xiang Ruan, Ming-Hsuan Yang, Sketch retrieval via local dense stroke features, Image and Vision Computing, Volume 46, February 2016, Pages 64-73, ISSN 0262-8856, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.imavis.2015.11.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0262885615001389)
Abstract: Abstract
Sketch retrieval aims at retrieving the most similar sketches from a large database based on one hand-drawn query. Successful retrieval hinges on an effective representation of sketch images and an efficient search method. In this paper, we propose a representation scheme which takes sketch strokes into account with local features, thereby facilitating efficient retrieval with codebooks. Stroke features are detected via densely sampled points on stroke lines with crucial corners as anchor points, from which local gradients are enhanced and described by a quantized histogram of gradients. A codebook is organized in a hierarchical vocabulary tree, which maintains structural information of visual words and enables efficient retrieval in sub-linear time. Experimental results on three data sets demonstrate the merits of the proposed algorithm for effective and efficient sketch retrieval.
Keywords: Sketch retrieval; Stroke feature; Poisson based histogram of orientation

Si-Bo Duan, Zhao-Liang Li, Pei Leng, A framework for the retrieval of all-weather land surface temperature at a high spatial resolution from polar-orbiting thermal infrared and passive microwave data, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 195, 15 June 2017, Pages 107-117, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2017.04.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S003442571730158X)
Abstract: Abstract
Land surface temperature (LST) is an important parameter associated with the land-atmosphere interface. Satellite remote sensing is the most effective method of measuring LST at regional and global scales. Satellite thermal infrared (TIR) measurements are widely used to retrieve LST with high accuracy and high spatial resolution but are limited to cloud-free conditions due to their inability to penetrate clouds. By contrast, satellite passive microwave (PMW) measurements are capable of penetrating clouds and providing data regardless of the cloud conditions. However, PMW measurements have limitations, such as a low spatial resolution and low temperature retrieval accuracy. Furthermore, temperature retrieval from PMW measurements yields the subsurface temperature, which differs from the LST retrieved from TIR measurements (skin temperature). This study proposes a framework for the retrieval of all-weather LST at a high spatial resolution by combining the advantages of TIR and PMW measurements. Compared to the MODIS LST product, the all-weather LST reflects the spatial variations in LST accurately. In situ LST measurements at four sites in an arid area of northwest China were used to evaluate the accuracy of the all-weather LST. The root mean square error of the LST under cloud-free conditions was approximately 2 K, whereas that of the LST under cloudy conditions varied from 3.5 K to 4.4 K. The results indicate that the all-weather LST retrieval algorithm can provide an LST dataset with reasonable accuracy and a high spatial resolution under clear and cloudy conditions.
Keywords: Land surface temperature; All-weather; Thermal infrared; Passive microwave; Subsurface temperature

Anton Vrieling, Andrew K. Skidmore, Tiejun Wang, Michele Meroni, Bruno J. Ens, Kees Oosterbeek, Brian O’Connor, Roshanak Darvishzadeh, Marco Heurich, Anita Shepherd, Marc Paganini, Spatially detailed retrievals of spring phenology from single-season high-resolution image time series, International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation, Volume 59, July 2017, Pages 19-30, ISSN 0303-2434, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jag.2017.02.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0303243417300478)
Abstract: Abstract
Vegetation indices derived from satellite image time series have been extensively used to estimate the timing of phenological events like season onset. Medium spatial resolution (≥250 m) satellite sensors with daily revisit capability are typically employed for this purpose. In recent years, phenology is being retrieved at higher resolution (≤30 m) in response to increasing availability of high-resolution satellite data. To overcome the reduced acquisition frequency of such data, previous attempts involved fusion between high- and medium-resolution data, or combinations of multi-year acquisitions in a single phenological reconstruction. The objectives of this study are to demonstrate that phenological parameters can now be retrieved from single-season high-resolution time series, and to compare these retrievals against those derived from multi-year high-resolution and single-season medium-resolution satellite data. The study focuses on the island of Schiermonnikoog, the Netherlands, which comprises a highly-dynamic saltmarsh, dune vegetation, and agricultural land. Combining NDVI series derived from atmospherically-corrected images from RapidEye (5 m-resolution) and the SPOT5 Take5 experiment (10m-resolution) acquired between March and August 2015, phenological parameters were estimated using a function fitting approach. We then compared results with phenology retrieved from four years of 30 m Landsat 8 OLI data, and single-year 100 m Proba-V and 250 m MODIS temporal composites of the same period. Retrieved phenological parameters from combined RapidEye/SPOT5 displayed spatially consistent results and a large spatial variability, providing complementary information to existing vegetation community maps. Retrievals that combined four years of Landsat observations into a single synthetic year were affected by the inclusion of years with warmer spring temperatures, whereas adjustment of the average phenology to 2015 observations was only feasible for a few pixels due to cloud cover around phenological transition dates. The Proba-V and MODIS phenology retrievals scaled poorly relative to their high-resolution equivalents, indicating that medium-resolution phenology retrievals need to be interpreted with care, particularly in landscapes with fine-scale land cover variability.
Keywords: Phenology; Multi-temporal analysis; NDVI time series; Multi-source imagery; Spatial resolution; Landscape variability; Saltmarsh; Agriculture

Zhao Wang, Yinfu Feng, Tian Qi, Xiaosong Yang, Jian J. Zhang, Adaptive multi-view feature selection for human motion retrieval, Signal Processing, Volume 120, March 2016, Pages 691-701, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2014.11.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168414005520)
Abstract: Abstract
Human motion retrieval plays an important role in many motion data based applications. In the past, many researchers tended to use a single type of visual feature as data representation. Because different visual feature describes different aspects about motion data, and they have dissimilar discriminative power with respect to one particular class of human motion, it led to poor retrieval performance. Thus, it would be beneficial to combine multiple visual features together for motion data representation. In this article, we present an Adaptive Multi-view Feature Selection (AMFS) method for human motion retrieval. Specifically, we first use a local linear regression model to automatically learn multiple view-based Laplacian graphs for preserving the local geometric structure of motion data. Then, these graphs are combined together with a non-negative view-weight vector to exploit the complementary information between different features. Finally, in order to discard the redundant and irrelevant feature components from the original high-dimensional feature representation, we formulate the objective function of AMFS as a general trace ratio optimization problem, and design an effective algorithm to solve the corresponding optimization problem. Extensive experiments on two public human motion database, i.e., HDM05 and MSR Action3D, demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed AMFS over the state-of-art methods for motion data retrieval. The scalability with large motion dataset, and insensitivity with the algorithm parameters, make our method can be widely used in real-world applications.
Keywords: Human motion retrieval; Feature selection; Multi-view learning; Trace ratio minimization problem

N. Jaiswal, W. Ray, S. Slobounov, Encoding of visual–spatial information in working memory requires more cerebral efforts than retrieval: Evidence from an EEG and virtual reality study, Brain Research, Volume 1347, 6 August 2010, Pages 80-89, ISSN 0006-8993, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2010.05.086.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899310012904)
Abstract: Visual–spatial working memory tasks can be decomposed into encoding and retrieval phases. It was hypothesized that encoding of visual–spatial information is cognitively more challenging than retrieval. This was tested by combining electroencephalography with a virtual reality paradigm to observe the modulation in EEG activity. EEG power analysis results demonstrated an increase in theta activity during encoding in comparison to retrieval, whereas alpha activity was significantly higher for retrieval in comparison to encoding. We found that encoding required more cerebral efforts than retrieval. Further, as seen in fMRI studies, we observed an encoding/retrieval flip in that encoding and retrieval differentially activated similar neural substrates. Results obtained from sLORETA identified cortical sources in the inferior frontal gyrus, which is a part of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) during encoding, whereas the inferior parietal lobe and precuneus cortical sources were identified during retrieval. We further tie our results into studies examining the default network, which have shown increased activation in DLPFC occurs in response to increased cerebral challenge, while posterior parietal areas show activation during baseline or internal processing tasks. We conclude that encoding of visual–spatial information via VR navigation task is more cerebrally challenging than retrieval.
Keywords: Visual–spatial working memory; Electroencephalography; sLORETA; Encoding; Retrieval; Virtual reality

Olfa Allani, Hajer Baazaoui Zghal, Nedra Mellouli, Herman Akdag, A Knowledge-based Image Retrieval System Integrating Semantic and Visual Features, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 96, 2016, Pages 1428-1436, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.08.188.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916319986)
Abstract: Abstract
The main limitations of the existing high level image retrieval approaches concern the high dependance on an external reliable resource (domain ontologies, learning sets, etc.) and a model for mapping semantic and visual information.

In this paper, we propose an image retrieval system integrating semantic and visual features. The idea is to automatically build a modular ontology for semantic information and organize visual features in a graph-based model. Both elements are then combined together in a same component called “pattern” used for retrieval. The system has been implemented and the obtained results show that our proposal enables an improvement in the retrieval task.
Keywords: image retrieval; region; ontology module

Ashnil Kumar, Shane Dyer, Jinman Kim, Changyang Li, Philip H.W. Leong, Michael Fulham, Dagan Feng, Adapting content-based image retrieval techniques for the semantic annotation of medical images, Computerized Medical Imaging and Graphics, Volume 49, April 2016, Pages 37-45, ISSN 0895-6111, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compmedimag.2016.01.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0895611116300015)
Abstract: Abstract
The automatic annotation of medical images is a prerequisite for building comprehensive semantic archives that can be used to enhance evidence-based diagnosis, physician education, and biomedical research. Annotation also has important applications in the automatic generation of structured radiology reports. Much of the prior research work has focused on annotating images with properties such as the modality of the image, or the biological system or body region being imaged. However, many challenges remain for the annotation of high-level semantic content in medical images (e.g., presence of calcification, vessel obstruction, etc.) due to the difficulty in discovering relationships and associations between low-level image features and high-level semantic concepts. This difficulty is further compounded by the lack of labelled training data. In this paper, we present a method for the automatic semantic annotation of medical images that leverages techniques from content-based image retrieval (CBIR). CBIR is a well-established image search technology that uses quantifiable low-level image features to represent the high-level semantic content depicted in those images. Our method extends CBIR techniques to identify or retrieve a collection of labelled images that have similar low-level features and then uses this collection to determine the best high-level semantic annotations. We demonstrate our annotation method using retrieval via weighted nearest-neighbour retrieval and multi-class classification to show that our approach is viable regardless of the underlying retrieval strategy. We experimentally compared our method with several well-established baseline techniques (classification and regression) and showed that our method achieved the highest accuracy in the annotation of liver computed tomography (CT) images.
Keywords: Image annotation; Content-based image retrieval; Computed tomography; Liver; ImageCLEF

Yesubai Rubavathi Charles, Ravi Ramraj, A novel local mesh color texture pattern for image retrieval system, AEU - International Journal of Electronics and Communications, Volume 70, Issue 3, March 2016, Pages 225-233, ISSN 1434-8411, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aeue.2015.11.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1434841115003349)
Abstract: Abstract
This manuscript contributes a new feature descriptor local mesh color texture pattern (LMCTP) by merging color and local spatial information for image retrieval system. The intended method combines the various features from a mixture of color spaces, the local mesh patterns of the input image. LMCTP descriptor discriminates information between the spatial color textural patterns of multi-spectral channels within the local region. It determines the relationship between surrounding neighbors of the opponent color channel. Beside this, a merged color space, I1QCb, is constructed by combining the I1 part of the I1I2I3 color space and the chromatic component images, Cb and Q, of the YCbCr and YIQ color spaces correspondingly so as to exploit the effect of joint color texture feature. The I1QCb color space, whose component of images having matching characteristics, increases the distinctive power for retrieval system. Then opponent color spaces I1Q, QCb and I1Cb are utilized for the capturing of LMCTP features. The feasibility of the proposed framework is experiments on benchmark databases such as MIT VisTex database (DB1), Corel 1000 database (DB2). Experimental study shows that the proposed pattern gives average retrieval precision of 99.8 for DB1 and 76.5 for DB2, respectively.
Keywords: Local mesh color texture pattern; Image retrieval system; Opponent color channel; Local binary pattern; I1QCb color space

J. Kolassa, P. Gentine, C. Prigent, F. Aires, Soil moisture retrieval from AMSR-E and ASCAT microwave observation synergy. Part 1: Satellite data analysis, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 173, February 2016, Pages 1-14, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2015.11.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425715302005)
Abstract: Abstract
A study is performed to analyze the daily retrieval of soil moisture from the synergy of active and passive microwave data using observations from the ASCAT scatterometer and AMSR-E radiometer. The objective is to identify the information provided by each sensor and to analyze preprocessing methods – such as the day/night average, diurnal difference and microwave polarization difference index for AMSR-E and the incidence angle normalization and backscatter temporal index for ASCAT – to maximize the amount of soil moisture information extracted. Additionally, the data fusion and a posteriori synergy methodologies are compared to determine how to optimally exploit this combined information. This study is performed using a neural network (NN) to estimate soil moisture from a set of AMSR-E and ASCAT observations. ERA-interim/Land surface soil moisture fields are used to train the NN as well as to evaluate the performance of the different retrieval input datasets. It is shown that using the AMSR-E 7 GHz, 11 GHz, 19 GHz and 37 GHz channels with the three preprocessing methods highlights various surface contributions in the signal, in particular the soil moisture and surface temperature information, and greatly helps the retrieval in disentangling them. For ASCAT, the synergy effect is less significant and data preprocessed with the two methods analyzed yields very similar information. The information provided by the active and passive microwave sensors is found to be very complementary, such that a soil moisture retrieval using the combined active and passive information shows a significant improvement between 5% and 19% in the temporal correlation and a reduction of the retrieval uncertainty by 7%. The improvement in the spatial structure is smaller with a correlation increase of 2%. It is demonstrated that the choice of synergy method strongly impacts the retrieval improvement that can be achieved. Data fusion methods are shown to be better suited than a posteriori combination methods, due to their ability to exploit information complementarity. These results could help improve future active/passive soil moisture retrievals, such as from the Soil Moisture Active/Passive (SMAP) mission, through the application of similar preprocessing and synergy methods in order to better extract the soil moisture information provided.
Keywords: Satellite retrieval; Soil moisture; Surface hydrology; Active/passive microwave; Sensor synergy

Ioannis Sarafis, Christos Diou, Anastasios Delopoulos, Online training of concept detectors for image retrieval using streaming clickthrough data, Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, Volume 51, May 2016, Pages 150-162, ISSN 0952-1976, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2016.01.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S095219761600021X)
Abstract: Abstract
Clickthrough data from image search engines provide a massive and continuously generated source of user feedback that can be used to model how the search engine users perceive the visual content. Image clickthrough data have been successfully used to build concept detectors without any manual annotation effort, although the generated annotations suffer from labeling errors. Previous research efforts therefore focused on modeling the sample uncertainty in order to improve concept detector effectiveness. In this paper, we study the problem in an online learning setting using streaming clickthrough data where each click is treated seperately when it becomes available; the concept detector model is therefore continuously updated without batch retraining. We argue that sample uncertainty can be incorporated in the online learning setting by exploiting the repetitions of incoming clicks at the classifier level, where these act as an implicit importance weighting mechanism. For online concept detector training we use the LASVM algorithm. The inferred weighting approximates the solution of batch trained concept detectors using weighted SVM variants that are known to achieve improved performance and high robustness to noise compared to the standard SVM. Furthermore, we evaluate methods for selecting negative samples using a small number of candidates sampled locally from the incoming stream of clicks. The selection criteria aim at drastically improving the performance and the convergence speed of the online concept detectors. To validate our arguments we conduct experiments for 30 concepts on the Clickture-Lite dataset. The experimental results demonstrate that: (a) the proposed online approach produces effective and noise resilient concept detectors that can take advantage of streaming clickthrough data and achieve performance that is equivalent to Fuzzy SVM concept detectors with sample weights and 78.6% improved compared to standard SVM concept detectors; and (b) the selection criteria speed up convergence and improve effectiveness compared to random negative sampling even for a small number of available clicks (up to 134% after 100 clicks).
Keywords: Clickthrough data; Online learning; Image retrieval; Label noise; Fuzzy SVM; LASVM

Anu Bala, Tajinder Kaur, Local texton XOR patterns: A new feature descriptor for content-based image retrieval, Engineering Science and Technology, an International Journal, Volume 19, Issue 1, March 2016, Pages 101-112, ISSN 2215-0986, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jestch.2015.06.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S221509861500110X)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, a novel feature descriptor, local texton XOR patterns (LTxXORP) is proposed for content-based image retrieval. The proposed method collects the texton XOR pattern which gives the structure of the query image or database image. First, the RGB (red, green, blue) color image is converted into HSV (hue, saturation and value) color space. Second, the V color space is divided into overlapping subblocks of size 2 × 2 and textons are collected based on the shape of the textons. Then, exclusive OR (XOR) operation is performed on the texton image between the center pixel and its surrounding neighbors. Finally, the feature vector is constructed based on the LTxXORPs and HSV histograms. The performance of the proposed method is evaluated by testing on benchmark database, Corel-1K, Corel-5K and Corel-10K in terms of precision, recall, average retrieval precision (ARP) and average retrieval rate (ARR). The results after investigation show a significant improvement as compared to the state-of-the-art features for image retrieval.
Keywords: Texton; Local XOR patterns; Local binary patterns; Histogram; Texture; Image retrieval

Daren Fang, Xiaodong Liu, Imed Romdhani, Pooyan Jamshidi, Claus Pahl, An agility-oriented and fuzziness-embedded semantic model for collaborative cloud service search, retrieval and recommendation, Future Generation Computer Systems, Volume 56, March 2016, Pages 11-26, ISSN 0167-739X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2015.09.025.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X15003052)
Abstract: Abstract
Cloud computing enables a revolutionary paradigm of consuming ICT services. However, due to the inadequately described service information, users often feel confused while trying to find the optimal services. Although some approaches are proposed to deal with cloud service retrieval and recommendation issues, they would only work for certain restricted scenarios in dealing with basic service specifications. Indeed, the missing extent is that most of the cloud services are “agile” whilst there are many vague service terms and descriptions. This paper proposes an agility-oriented and fuzziness-embedded cloud service ontology model, which adopts agility-centric design along with OWL2 (Web Ontology Language) fuzzy extensions. The captured cloud service specifications are maintained in an open and collaborative manner, as the fuzziness in the model accepts rating updates from users on the fly. The model enables comprehensive service specification by capturing cloud concept details and their interactions, even across multiple service categories and abstraction levels. Utilizing the model as a knowledge base, a service recommendation system prototype is developed. Case studies demonstrate that the approach can outperform existing practices by achieving effective service search, retrieval and recommendation outcomes.
Keywords: Cloud computing; Service agility; Semantic model; Service discovery; Ontology evolution; Knowledge retrieval

Tugba Uzer, Retrieving autobiographical memories: How different retrieval strategies associated with different cues explain reaction time differences, Acta Psychologica, Volume 164, February 2016, Pages 144-150, ISSN 0001-6918, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actpsy.2016.01.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S000169181630004X)
Abstract: Abstract
Previous research has shown that memories cued by concrete concepts, such as objects, are retrieved faster than those cued by more abstract concepts, such as emotions. This effect has been explained by the fact that more memories are directly retrieved from object versus emotion cues. In the present study, we tested whether RT differences between memories cued by emotion versus object terms occur not only because object cues elicit direct retrieval of more memories (Uzer, Lee, &amp; Brown, 2012), but also because of differences in memory generation in response to emotions versus objects. One hundred university students retrieved memories in response to basic-level (e.g. orange), superordinate-level (e.g. plant), and emotion (e.g. surprised) cues. Retrieval speed was measured and participants reported whether memories were directly retrieved or generated on each trial. Results showed that memories were retrieved faster in response to basic-level versus superordinate-level and emotion cues because a) basic-level cues elicited more directly retrieved memories, and b) generating memories was more difficult when cues were abstract versus concrete. These results suggest that generative retrieval is a cue generation process in which additional cues that provide contextual information including the target event are produced. Memories are retrieved more slowly in response to emotion cues in part because emotion labels are less effective cues of appropriate contextual information. This particular finding is inconsistent with the idea that emotion is a primary organizational unit for autobiographical memories. In contrast, the difficulty of emotional memory generation implies that emotions represent low-level event information in the organization of autobiographical memory.
Keywords: Generative retrieval; Emotion; Autobiographical memory

Jun Xiao, Yinfu Feng, Mingming Ji, Yueting Zhuang, Fast view-based 3D model retrieval via unsupervised multiple feature fusion and online projection learning, Signal Processing, Volume 120, March 2016, Pages 702-713, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2014.11.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168414005593)
Abstract: Abstract
Since each visual feature only reflects a unique characteristic about a 3-dimensional (3D) model and different visual features have diverse discriminative power in model representation, it would be beneficial to fuse multiple visual features in 3D model retrieval. To this end, we propose a fast view-based 3D model retrieval framework in this article. This framework comprises two parts: the first one is an Unsupervised Multiple Feature Fusion algorithm (UMFF), which is used to learn a compact yet discriminative feature representation from the original multiple visual features; and the second one is an efficient Online Projection Learning algorithm (OPL), which is designed to fast transfer the input multiple visual features of a newcome model into its corresponding low-dimensional feature representation. In this framework, many existing ranking algorithms such as the simple distance-based ranking method can be directly adopted for sorting all 3D models in the database using the learned new feature representation and returning the top ranked models to the user. Extensive experiments on two public 3D model databases demonstrate the efficiency and the effectiveness of the proposed approach over its competitors. The proposed framework cannot only dramatically improve the retrieval performance but also reduce the computational cost in dealing with the newcome models.
Keywords: View-based 3D model retrieval; Multiple feature fusion; Online projection learning; Out-of-sample

Zongmin Li, Zhenzhong Kuang, Yujie Liu, Jiayan Wang, Multiscale shape context and re-ranking for deformable shape retrieval, Computers & Graphics, Volume 54, February 2016, Pages 8-17, ISSN 0097-8493, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cag.2015.07.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0097849315001053)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper proposes a distinct multiscale shape context (MSC) method for isometric 3D shape description and retrieval. For each feature point, a MSC descriptor is devised to capture the multiple spatial information on the basis of the intrinsic shape context, which is advantageous in solving the domain offset deficiency for intra-class shapes. Different from the traditional shape context method, the MSC descriptor is built based on the charts without angular bins and the shape distributions in local domains, which makes it not only simple but also efficient. To reduce the cost of shape representation, we detect a sparse set of feature points and design an improved bags-of-word model to encode the MSC descriptors. For retrieval improvement, an efficient while robust re-ranking algorithm by metric mapping is designed to alleviate the errors of the feature space. Finally, the experimental results have demonstrated significant performance gains on two public benchmarks.
Keywords: 3D shape retrieval; Multiscale shape context; Local descriptor; BOW; Re-ranking

Linan Feng, Bir Bhanu, John Heraty, A software system for automated identification and retrieval of moth images based on wing attributes, Pattern Recognition, Volume 51, March 2016, Pages 225-241, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2015.09.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S003132031500343X)
Abstract: Abstract
Manually collecting, identifying, archiving and retrieving specimen images is an expensive and time-consuming work for entomologists. There is a clear need to introduce fast systems integrated with modern image processing and analysis algorithms to accelerate the process. In this paper, we describe the development of an automated moth species identification and retrieval system (SPIR) using computer vision and pattern recognition techniques. The core of the system is a probabilistic model that infers Semantically Related Visual (SRV) attributes from low-level visual features of moth images in the training set, where moth wings are segmented into information-rich patches from which the local features are extracted, and the SRV attributes are provided by human experts as ground-truth. For the large amount of unlabeled test images in the database or added into the database later on, an automated identification process is evoked to translate the detected salient regions of low-level visual features on the moth wings into meaningful semantic SRV attributes. We further propose a novel network analysis based approach to explore and utilize the co-occurrence patterns of SRV attributes as contextual cues to improve individual attribute detection accuracy. Working with a small set of labeled training images, the approach constructs a network with nodes representing the SRV attributes and weighted edges denoting the co-occurrence correlation. A fast modularity maximization algorithm is proposed to detect the co-occurrence patterns as communities in the network. A random walk process working on the discovered co-occurrence patterns is applied to refine the individual attribute detection results. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is evaluated in automated moth identification and attribute-based image retrieval. In addition, a novel image descriptor called SRV attribute signature is introduced to record the visual and semantic properties of an image and is used to compare image similarity. Experiments are performed on an existing entomology database to illustrate the capabilities of our proposed system. We observed that the system performance is improved by the SRV attribute representation and their co-occurrence patterns.
Keywords: Entomological image identification and retrieval; Semantically related visual attributes; Attribute co-occurrence pattern detection

V. Viji Rajendran, S. Swamynathan, MOSS-IR: Multi-Ontology Based Search System for Information Retrieval in E-health Domain, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 47, 2015, Pages 179-187, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.03.196.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915004640)
Abstract: Abstract
With the development of the Semantic Web, ontology has become the crucial means for representing concepts in various domains of interest. Although the current search engines return results based on keyword search and page ranking, human intervention is still required to select the most relevant document. Hence to overcome the disadvantages with the current search scenario, this paper proposes search based on multiple ontologies to make information retrieval efficient. It rewrites the user query by adding semantic information, after consulting multiple ontologies.
Keywords: Ontology; Semantic Web; Query expansion; Reasoning.

Wenying Du, Nengcheng Chen, Songhua Yan, Online soil moisture retrieval and sharing using geospatial web-enabled BDS-R service, Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, Volume 121, February 2016, Pages 354-367, ISSN 0168-1699, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2016.01.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169916000107)
Abstract: Abstract
Global navigation satellite system-reflectometry (GNSS-R) signals have recently being used in the monitoring of soil moisture (SM) due to their high availability and widespread existence. GNSS-R signal-based online SM retrieval and real-time product sharing has advantages over other methods because it features the instant and automatic retrieval of SM, and low-latency SM product publishing and sharing, enabling a notable decrease in human and material resource consumption and a timely SM product delivery; however, prior to this manuscript, there has not been a study describing how to do it. This paper uses one type of GNSS-R signals, the Beidou navigation satellite system-reflectometry (BDS-R) signal, as the data source and proposes a geospatial web-enabled BDS-R (GWEB) service. This method tackles the problems of SM retrieval and sharing by implementing the original BDS-R signal publishing, the online SM retrieval, and the SM product sharing. In the GWEB service, a web processing service is adopted to encapsulate the SM retrieval algorithm, and a sensor observation service is applied to publish the original BDS-R observations and the SM products. Signals of the Baoxie BDS-R SM monitoring station in Wuhan, China for the period of November 17, 2014 to November 24, 2014 are used as input in the validation experiment, and the SM products are demonstrated in the sharing platform. Meanwhile, the BDS-R derived SM products are compared with the corresponding SM values measured by ground soil hygrometers, indicating the feasibility of the service for online SM retrieval and sharing.
Keywords: Beidou signal; Soil moisture; Online retrieval; Sharing; Sensor web

Yongjin Kwon, Kyuchang Kang, Junho Jin, Jinyoung Moon, Jongyoul Park, Hierarchically linked infinite hidden Markov model based trajectory analysis and semantic region retrieval in a trajectory dataset, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 78, 15 July 2017, Pages 386-395, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2017.02.026.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417417301082)
Abstract: Abstract
With an increasing attempt of finding latent semantics in a video dataset, trajectories have become key components since they intrinsically include concise characteristics of object movements. An approach to analyze a trajectory dataset has concentrated on semantic region retrieval, which extracts some regions in which have their own patterns of object movements. Semantic region retrieval has become an important topic since the semantic regions are useful for various applications, such as activity analysis. The previous literatures, however, have just revealed semantically relevant points, rather than actual regions, and have less consideration of temporal dependency of observations in a trajectory. In this paper, we propose a novel model for trajectory analysis and semantic region retrieval. We first extend the meaning of semantic regions that can cover actual regions. We build a model for the extended semantic regions based on a hierarchically linked infinite hidden Markov model, which can capture the temporal dependency between adjacent observations, and retrieve the semantic regions from a trajectory dataset. In addition, we propose a sticky extension to diminish redundant semantic regions that occur in a non-sticky model. The experimental results demonstrate that our models well extract semantic regions from a real trajectory dataset.
Keywords: Trajectory analysis; Semantic regions; Nonparametric Bayesian models; Infinite hidden Markov models; Sticky extensions

Beatriz E.P. Mizusaki, Everton J. Agnes, Rubem Erichsen Jr., Leonardo G. Brunnet, Learning and retrieval behavior in recurrent neural networks with pre-synaptic dependent homeostatic plasticity, Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, Volume 479, 1 August 2017, Pages 279-286, ISSN 0378-4371, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physa.2017.02.035.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378437117301759)
Abstract: Abstract
The plastic character of brain synapses is considered to be one of the foundations for the formation of memories. There are numerous kinds of such phenomenon currently described in the literature, but their role in the development of information pathways in neural networks with recurrent architectures is still not completely clear. In this paper we study the role of an activity-based process, called pre-synaptic dependent homeostatic scaling, in the organization of networks that yield precise-timed spiking patterns. It encodes spatio-temporal information in the synaptic weights as it associates a learned input with a specific response. We introduce a correlation measure to evaluate the precision of the spiking patterns and explore the effects of different inhibitory interactions and learning parameters. We find that large learning periods are important in order to improve the network learning capacity and discuss this ability in the presence of distinct inhibitory currents.
Keywords: Synaptic plasticity; Spike pattern; Spike timing; Recurrent network; Homeostatic plasticity

Shouyu Wang, Keding Yan, Liang Xue, High speed moire based phase retrieval method for quantitative phase imaging of thin objects without phase unwrapping or aberration compensation, Optics Communications, Volume 359, 15 January 2016, Pages 272-278, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2015.09.100.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401815301796)
Abstract: Abstract
Phase retrieval composed of phase extracting and unwrapping is of great significance in different occasions, such as fringe projection based profilometry, quantitative interferometric microscopy and moire detections. Compared to phase extracting, phase unwrapping occupies most time consuming in phase retrieval, and it becomes an obstacle to realize real time measurements. In order to increase the calculation efficiency of phase retrieval as well as simplify its procedures, here, a high speed moire based phase retrieval method is proposed which is capable of calculating quantitative phase distributions without phase unwrapping or aberration compensation. We demonstrate the capability of the presented phase retrieval method by both theoretical analysis and experiments. It is believed that the proposed method will be useful in real time phase observations and measurements.
Keywords: Phase retrieval; Quantitative interferometric microscopy; Phase distribution measurements

Chesti Altaff Hussain, D.Venkata Rao, S.Aruna Masthani, Robust Pre-processing Technique Based on Saliency Detection for Content Based Image Retrieval Systems, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 85, 2016, Pages 571-580, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.05.223.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916305713)
Abstract: Abstract
The perceptual quality which attracts viewer attention by making the objects differ from its neighbours is said to be Visual saliency. They concentrate on the region of interest. The paper aims at improving the performance of content based image retrieval using saliency detection approach. Several methods have been developed to extract the saliency information from an image. We use the state of the art Quaternion transform for to detect the saliency. The paper focuses on the content based image retrieval systems based on scale invariant feature transform and region segmentation. Experimental results prove that the proposed technique outperforms the existing techniques and produce better retrieval results.
Keywords: Visual Saliency; Perceptual quality; Segmentation; Content based image retrieval; Scale Invariant transform; Quaternion transform.

Mingcong Huang, Shaocun Sui, Wenping Mou, Shusheng Zhang, Wenjun Cao, Three-dimensional CAD Model Retrieval Algorithm Based on Ontology, Procedia CIRP, Volume 56, 2016, Pages 590-593, ISSN 2212-8271, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2016.10.116.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212827116311088)
Abstract: Abstract
For resolving problems such as how the user implement three-dimensional CAD model retrievals and how to reuse the retrieval results during the smart process planning, this paper present an ontology-based algorithm for three-dimensional CAD model retrieval. The CAD model is segmented into several relevant sub-parts. Then, attach semantic descriptions and annotations to these sub-parts. Finally, evaluate the similarity of the models based on the semantic ontology 3D CAD model. The experimental results show the efficiency of this method to meet the requirements of engineering retrieval and reuse of design and manufacture.
Keywords: CAD model retrieval; reuse; semantic ontology; MBD

G. Nagarajan, R.I. Minu, Fuzzy Ontology Based Multi-Modal Semantic Information Retrieval, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 48, 2015, Pages 101-106, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.04.157.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915006663)
Abstract: Abstract
Lack of today's technology of information retrieval system is the semantic between the information resources. The semantic can be expressed for a resource using the underlying technology of ontology. So the main objective of this paper is to design an information retrieval system for both text and image data using the concept of ontology. The main focus of this paper is to improve information retrieval for sports events using Ontologies. As it is complex problem, it is addressed into the following sub-problems in this paper. (1) Integrating domain knowledge and images using fuzzy ontology and Retrieving the required Muti-modal information using fuzzy rule set. (2) Providing image semantic by constructing visual codebook for affine covariant-Semantic segmented patches. (3) Analysing the discriminative power of each visual word using the probabilistic latent semantic and quantizing them using the Chi-Square test. In this work, the domain of Sports is considered for creating both Low-level visual ontology for certain sport event images and also for building a high-level domain ontology from the information on web. These two Ontologies are integrated using Fuzzy concepts.
Keywords: Ontology; Knowledge representation; Semantic Analysis; OWL; Machine Learning; Computer Vision

Julia Rupprecht, Karl-Heinz T. Bäuml, Retrieval-induced forgetting in item recognition: Retrieval specificity revisited, Journal of Memory and Language, Volume 86, January 2016, Pages 97-118, ISSN 0749-596X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jml.2015.09.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0749596X1500114X)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieval-induced forgetting (RIF) refers to the finding that retrieval practice on a subset of studied items can induce later forgetting of related unpracticed items. Although previous studies indicated that RIF is retrieval specific – i.e., it arises after retrieval practice but not after reexposure cycles -, the results of more recent work suggest otherwise, indicating that some reexposure formats can induce RIF very similar to how retrieval practice does. Whereas this prior work employed recall at test, here we revisited retrieval specificity of RIF employing item recognition. The results of three experiments are reported, which examined the effects of retrieval practice and some of the recently suggested reexposure formats on unpracticed items’ recognition. In each of these experiments, we showed RIF after retrieval practice but did not find any evidence for RIF-like forgetting after reexposure. These findings demonstrate retrieval specificity of RIF in item recognition, challenging strength-based accounts of RIF and indicating a critical role of inhibition in RIF. Together with the results from the recent recall studies, which we replicated in three further experiments, the present findings are consistent with a two-factor account of RIF, which assigns a role for both inhibition and strength-based blocking in RIF. While both inhibition and blocking may contribute to RIF in certain recall formats, only inhibition may induce RIF in item recognition.
Keywords: Episodic memory; Retrieval-induced forgetting; Inhibition; Blocking; Recognition

Fan Zhang, Yang Song, Weidong Cai, Alexander G. Hauptmann, Sidong Liu, Sonia Pujol, Ron Kikinis, Michael J. Fulham, David Dagan Feng, Mei Chen, Dictionary pruning with visual word significance for medical image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 177, 12 February 2016, Pages 75-88, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.11.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215016616)
Abstract: Abstract
Content-based medical image retrieval (CBMIR) is an active research area for disease diagnosis and treatment but it can be problematic given the small visual variations between anatomical structures. We propose a retrieval method based on a bag-of-visual-words (BoVW) to identify discriminative characteristics between different medical images with Pruned Dictionary based on Latent Semantic Topic description. We refer to this as the PD-LST retrieval. Our method has two main components. First, we calculate a topic-word significance value for each visual word given a certain latent topic to evaluate how the word is connected to this latent topic. The latent topics are learnt, based on the relationship between the images and words, and are employed to bridge the gap between low-level visual features and high-level semantics. These latent topics describe the images and words semantically and can thus facilitate more meaningful comparisons between the words. Second, we compute an overall-word significance value to evaluate the significance of a visual word within the entire dictionary. We designed an iterative ranking method to measure overall-word significance by considering the relationship between all latent topics and words. The words with higher values are considered meaningful with more significant discriminative power in differentiating medical images. We evaluated our method on two public medical imaging datasets and it showed improved retrieval accuracy and efficiency.
Keywords: Medical image retrieval; BoVW; Dictionary pruning

J. Muñoz-Sabater, A. Al Bitar and L. Brocca, Chapter 18 - Soil Moisture Retrievals Based on Active and Passive Microwave Data: State-of-the-Art and Operational Applications, In Satellite Soil Moisture Retrieval, edited by Prashant K. Srivastava, George P. Petropoulos and Yann H. Kerr, Elsevier, 2016, Pages 351-378, ISBN 9780128033883, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-803388-3.00018-8.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128033883000188)
Abstract: Abstract
This chapter provides a description of current operational applications using state-of-the-art soil moisture retrievals from active and passive remote sensing data. Both types of observations have demonstrated to contain useful information of shallow land variables. In particular, this chapter focuses on how soil moisture retrievals are used at the operational level to derive flood, drought, and landslides warnings, as well as its use in coupled land-atmospheric models. An overview of the caveats in the production and applications of the retrievals is also provided. The chapter ends by providing perspectives of these novel applications.
Keywords: soil moisture; microwave active data; microwave passive data; retrievals; operational

X. Zhang and S. Zhang, Chapter 8 - Hashing-based large-scale medical image retrieval for computer-aided diagnosis, In Machine Learning and Medical Imaging, edited by Guorong Wu, Dinggang Shen and Mert R. Sabuncu, Academic Press, 2016, Pages 237-255, ISBN 9780128040768, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-804076-8.00008-6.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128040768000086)
Abstract: Abstract
With the ever-increasing amount of annotated medical data, large-scale, data-driven methods provide the promise of bridging the semantic gap between images and diagnoses. Our goal is to increase the scale at which interactive systems can be effective for knowledge discovery in potentially massive databases of medical images. In particular, we investigate large-scale medical image retrieval techniques, with histopathological images as the use case. In this chapter, we present hashing methods to bridge the semantic gap. With a small amount of supervised information, our method can compress a high-dimensional image feature vector into tens of bits with informative signatures preserved, and these binary codes are indexed into a hash table for real-time retrieval. We validate the hashing-based image retrieval framework on several thousands of images of breast microscopic tissues for both image classification and retrieval. Our framework achieves high search accuracy and promising computational efficiency, comparing favorably with other commonly used methods.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Large scale; Big data; Medical imaging informatics; Histopathological images

Sang Min Jeon, Jae Hyun Lee, Gyeong June Hahm, Hyo Won Suh, Automatic CAD model retrieval based on design documents using semantic processing and rule processing, Computers in Industry, Volume 77, April 2016, Pages 29-47, ISSN 0166-3615, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2016.01.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016636151630001X)
Abstract: Abstract
Reuse of CAD model is important for manufacturing companies where similar products are produced. If existing CAD models have design information related to the design of a new product, their reuse saves costs and reduces time of product design. Since design documents generated in the early design stage contain product specifications and design directions for new product design, they can be used as input queries to retrieve existing CAD models. In this paper, we propose an approach to retrieving CAD models with design documents. A major challenge of the proposed approach was reduction of semantic gap between design documents and CAD models because design documents generated in the early design stage contain abstract design descriptions, while CAD models contain detailed design descriptions. In order to reduce the semantic gap between CAD models and design documents, we adopt semantic processing and rule processing. During the semantic processing, semantic representations are generated from the text in CAD models and text in design documents using a domain ontology and shallow natural language processing (NLP). Hidden design information is extracted from CAD models and design documents based on rule processing. The experimental results show that the proposed approach can outperform the keyword-based approach which does not overcome semantic gap.
Keywords: CAD model retrieval; Semantic representation; Rule processing; Domain ontology; Design document; Reverse-Engineering

R.van der Schalie, Y.H. Kerr, J.P. Wigneron, N.J. Rodríguez-Fernández, A. Al-Yaari, R.A.M.de Jeu, Global SMOS Soil Moisture Retrievals from The Land Parameter Retrieval Model, International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation, Volume 45, Part B, March 2016, Pages 125-134, ISSN 0303-2434, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jag.2015.08.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0303243415300179)
Abstract: Abstract
A recent study by Van der Schalie et al. (2015) showed good results for applying the Land Parameter Retrieval Model (LPRM) on SMOS observations over southeast Australia and optimizing and evaluating the retrieved soil moisture (θ in m3 m−3) against ground measurements from the OzNet sites. In this study, the LPRM parameterization is globally updated for SMOS against modelled θ from MERRA-Land (MERRA) and ERA-Interim/Land (ERA) over the period of July 2010–December 2010, mainly focusing on two parameters: the single scattering albedo (ω) and the roughness (h). The Pearson's coefficient of correlation (r) increased rapidly when increasing the ω up to 0.12 and reached a steady state from thereon, no significant spatial pattern was found in the estimation of the single scattering albedo, which could be an artifact of the used parameter estimation procedure, and a single value of 0.12 was therefore used globally. The h was defined as a function of θ and varied slightly for the different angle bins, with maximum values of 1.1–1.3 as the angle changes from 42.5° to 57.5°.This resulted in an average r of 0.51 and 0.47, with a bias (m3 m−3) of −0.02 and −0.01 and an unbiased root mean square error (ubrmse in m3 m−3) of 0.054 and 0.056 against MERRA (ascending and descending). For ERA this resulted in an r of 0.61 and 0.53, with a bias of −0.03 and an ubrmse 0.055 and 0.059. The resulting parameterization was then used to run LPRM on SMOS observations over the period of July 2010–December 2013 and evaluated against SMOS Level 3 (L3) θ and available in situ measurements from the International Soil Moisture Network (ISMN). The comparison with L3 shows that the LPRM θ retrievals are very similar, with for the ascending set very high r of over 0.9 in large parts of the globe, with an overall average of 0.85 and the descending set performing less with an average of 0.74, mainly due to the negative r over the Sahara. The mean bias is 0.03, with an ubrmse of 0.038 and 0.044. In this study there are three major areas where the LPRM retrievals do not perform well: very dry sandy areas, densely forested areas and over high latitudes, which are all known limitations of LPRM. The comparison against in situ measurement from the ISMN give very similar results, with average r for LPRM of 0.65 and 0.61 (0.64 and 0.59 for L3) for the ascending and descending sets, while having a comparable bias and ubrmse over the different networks. This shows that LPRM used on SMOS observations produce θ retrievals with a similar quality as the SMOS L3 product.
Keywords: Remote sensing; Passive microwave radiometry; Soil moisture; Soil moisture and ocean salinity (SMOS); Land Parameter Retrieval Model (LPRM)

Siyuan Qi, Yupin Luo, Object retrieval with image graph traversal-based re-ranking, Signal Processing: Image Communication, Volume 41, February 2016, Pages 101-114, ISSN 0923-5965, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.image.2015.12.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923596515002180)
Abstract: Abstract
The topic of this paper is the retrieval of a particular object. A graph traversal-based re-ranking framework for the baseline bag-of-words (BOW) approach is proposed. For an image, we consider not only its similarity with the query image, but also the relationship between other dataset images. We integrate these information as image attributes via an extended image graph and propose a graph traversal algorithm to efficiently obtain their values. By comprehensively considering these attributes, we propose an attribute similarity measure for re-ranking, which brings much performance improvement. We further use our method for the multiple-query retrieval with a simple extension of the virtual query. The experimental results show that our method significantly improve the baseline approach and achieves competitive performance compared with the other state-of-the-art methods. Additionally, our re-ranking method requires only a little extra memory space and time costs.
Keywords: Image graph traversal; Image attribute; Object retrieval; Re-ranking

Le An, Changjian Zou, Liyan Zhang, Bradley Denney, Scalable attribute-driven face image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 172, 8 January 2016, Pages 215-224, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.09.098.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215006128)
Abstract: Abstract
In recent years an explosion of online multimedia data has been witnessed. As an example, abundant photos recording every aspect of human life are available through social media. Among tremendous amount of photos, a significant fraction contains human faces. Faces are usually salient features of the photos. To understand and extract useful information from such gigantic data corpus, efficient and effective retrieval algorithms are demanded. Most face retrieval techniques rely on low-level image features to compare faces based on visual similarity. However, as humans we tend to simplify the recognition task by utilizing human attributes such as gender or race to help differentiate people on a higher semantic level. In this paper, we propose to use human attributes as high-level semantic cues to determine people׳s identities. To this end, we develop discriminative image features with attribute information encoded to achieve more accurate face image retrieval. To guarantee scalability, we propose using a binary coding scheme for the proposed attributed-based features. A re-ranking step after initial retrieval is incorporated to further improve the retrieval performance. We demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method compared to state-of-the-art on the LFW and Pubfig face datasets.
Keywords: Face image retrieval; Attribute; Scalability; Binary quantization; Re-ranking

Hanna Meyer, Meike Kühnlein, Tim Appelhans, Thomas Nauss, Comparison of four machine learning algorithms for their applicability in satellite-based optical rainfall retrievals, Atmospheric Research, Volume 169, Part B, 1 March 2016, Pages 424-433, ISSN 0169-8095, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosres.2015.09.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169809515003014)
Abstract: Abstract
Machine learning (ML) algorithms have successfully been demonstrated to be valuable tools in satellite-based rainfall retrievals which show the practicability of using ML algorithms when faced with high dimensional and complex data. Moreover, recent developments in parallel computing with ML present new possibilities for training and prediction speed and therefore make their usage in real-time systems feasible.

This study compares four ML algorithms — random forests (RF), neural networks (NNET), averaged neural networks (AVNNET) and support vector machines (SVM) — for rainfall area detection and rainfall rate assignment using MSG SEVIRI data over Germany. Satellite-based proxies for cloud top height, cloud top temperature, cloud phase and cloud water path serve as predictor variables.

The results indicate an overestimation of rainfall area delineation regardless of the ML algorithm (averaged bias = 1.8) but a high probability of detection ranging from 81% (SVM) to 85% (NNET). On a 24-hour basis, the performance of the rainfall rate assignment yielded R2 values between 0.39 (SVM) and 0.44 (AVNNET). Though the differences in the algorithms' performance were rather small, NNET and AVNNET were identified as the most suitable algorithms. On average, they demonstrated the best performance in rainfall area delineation as well as in rainfall rate assignment. NNET's computational speed is an additional advantage in work with large datasets such as in remote sensing based rainfall retrievals.

However, since no single algorithm performed considerably better than the others we conclude that further research in providing suitable predictors for rainfall is of greater necessity than an optimization through the choice of the ML algorithm.
Keywords: Machine learning; Rainfall retrieval; Rainfall rate; Rainfall area; MSG SEVIRI

Melanie A. Kneen, David J. Lary, William A. Harrison, Harold J. Annegarn, Tom H. Brikowski, Interpretation of satellite retrievals of PM2.5 over the southern African Interior, Atmospheric Environment, Volume 128, March 2016, Pages 53-64, ISSN 1352-2310, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2015.12.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1352231015305884)
Abstract: Abstract
A case study is presented for using an unsupervised classification (Self-Organizing Map) of a global PM2.5 data product assembled from satellite retrievals (SeaWIFS, MODIS Terra and MODIS Aqua) and ground observations. The PM2.5 data products are available, on a daily basis, from August 1997 to the present, with 10 km resolutions and global coverage. In this study, a sub-set of the PM2.5 retrievals (collected over the southern African Interior) has been averaged over ten-day intervals for a period of ten years. These averaged sub-sets have been clustered using self-organizing maps to generate spatial and seasonal “PM2.5 climates” and air quality interpretations over southern Africa. Results are an indirect validation of the satellite based data product against available regional ground-based and airborne studies. The final PM2.5 aerosol climatology shows that the data product provides credible PM2.5 estimates for a region that is lacking routine aerosol monitoring data.
Keywords: Regional air pollution; PM2.5 particulate matter; Aerosol retrievals; Aerosol climatology; SeaWIFS; MODIS

Bernhard G. Bodmann, Nathaniel Hammen, Algorithms and error bounds for noisy phase retrieval with low-redundancy frames, Applied and Computational Harmonic Analysis, Available online 17 March 2016, ISSN 1063-5203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acha.2016.03.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1063520316000282)
Abstract: Abstract
The main objective of this paper is to find algorithms accompanied by explicit error bounds for phase retrieval from noisy magnitudes of frame coefficients when the underlying frame has a low redundancy. We achieve these goals with frames consisting of N = 6 d − 3 vectors spanning a d-dimensional complex Hilbert space. The two algorithms we use, phase propagation or the kernel method, are polynomial time in the dimension d. To ensure a successful approximate recovery, we assume that the noise is sufficiently small compared to the squared norm of the vector to be recovered. In this regime, we derive an explicit error bound that is inverse proportional to the signal-to-noise ratio, with a constant of proportionality that depends only on the dimension d. Properties of the reproducing kernel space of complex polynomials and of trigonometric polynomials are central in our error estimates.
Keywords: Phase retrieval; Frames; Phase propagation; Stability; Low redundancy; Polynomials; Trigonometric polynomials; Hilbert spaces with reproducing kernel

Ivica Dimitrovski, Dragi Kocev, Suzana Loskovska, Sašo Džeroski, Improving bag-of-visual-words image retrieval with predictive clustering trees, Information Sciences, Volume 329, 1 February 2016, Pages 851-865, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2015.05.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025515003709)
Abstract: Abstract
The recent overwhelming increase in the amount of available visual information, especially digital images, has brought up a pressing need to develop efficient and accurate systems for image retrieval. State-of-the-art systems for image retrieval use the bag-of-visual-words representation of images. However, the computational bottleneck in all such systems is the construction of the visual codebook, i.e., obtaining the visual words. This is typically performed by clustering hundreds of thousands or millions of local descriptors, where the resulting clusters correspond to visual words. Each image is then represented by a histogram of the distribution of its local descriptors across the codebook. The major issue in retrieval systems is that by increasing the sizes of the image databases, the number of local descriptors to be clustered increases rapidly: Thus, using conventional clustering techniques is infeasible. Considering this, we propose to construct the visual codebook by using predictive clustering trees (PCTs), which can be constructed and executed efficiently and have good predictive performance. Moreover, to increase the stability of the model, we propose to use random forests of predictive clustering trees. We create a random forest of PCTs that represents both the codebook and the indexing structure. We evaluate the proposed improvement of the bag-of-visual-words approach on three reference datasets and two additional datasets of 100 K images and 1 M images, compare it to two state-of-the-art methods based on approximate k-means and extremely randomized tree ensembles. The results reveal that the proposed method produces a visual codebook with superior discriminative power and thus better retrieval performance while maintaining excellent computational efficiency.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Feature extraction; Visual codebook; Predictive clustering

Y. Wang, C. Quan, C.J. Tay, Asymmetric optical image encryption based on an improved amplitude–phase retrieval algorithm, Optics and Lasers in Engineering, Volume 78, March 2016, Pages 8-16, ISSN 0143-8166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optlaseng.2015.09.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0143816615002110)
Abstract: Abstract
We propose a new asymmetric optical image encryption scheme based on an improved amplitude–phase retrieval algorithm. Using two random phase masks that serve as public encryption keys, an iterative amplitude and phase retrieval process is employed to encode a primary image into a real-valued ciphertext. The private keys generated in the encryption process are used to perform one-way phase modulations. The decryption process is implemented optically using conventional double random phase encoding architecture. Numerical simulations are presented to demonstrate the feasibility and robustness of the proposed system. The results illustrate that the computing efficiency of the proposed method is improved and the number of iterations required is much less than that of the cryptosystem based on the Yang–Gu algorithm.
Keywords: Optical encryption; Asymmetric cryptosystem; Phase retrieval

Ghanshyam Raghuwanshi, Vipin Tyagi, Texture image retrieval using adaptive tetrolet transforms, Digital Signal Processing, Volume 48, January 2016, Pages 50-57, ISSN 1051-2004, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dsp.2015.09.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1051200415002717)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper proposes a novel technique for texture image retrieval based on tetrolet transforms. Tetrolets provide fine texture information due to its different way of analysis. Tetrominoes are applied at each decomposition level of an image and best combination of tetrominoes is selected, which better shows the geometry of an image at each level. All three high pass components of the decomposed image at each level are used as input values for feature extraction. A feature vector is created by taking standard deviation in combination with energy at each subband. Retrieval performance in terms of accuracy is tested on group of texture images taken from benchmark databases: Brodatz and VisTex. Experimental results indicate that the proposed method achieves 78.80% retrieval accuracy on group of texture images D1 (taken from Brodatz), 84.41% on group D2 (taken from VisTex) and 77.41% on rotated texture image group D3 (rotated images from Brodatz).
Keywords: Tetrolet transform; Texture image retrieval; Content-based image retrieval; Image search

B.H. Shekar, K.P. Uma, K. Raghurama Holla, Video Clip Retrieval Based on LBP Variance, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 89, 2016, Pages 828-835, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.06.068.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916311334)
Abstract: Abstract
Advancement in technology has made the acquisition and storage of multimedia data easy and inexpensive to the end user. However for effective use of the information available in the multimedia, efficient and accurate retrieval methods are required. Multimedia based retrieval systems extensively used texture based approach to interpret and recognize a scene image. The texture of an image provides clue to the orientation, smoothness, symmetry, shape, regularity and coarness of the surface. The Local Binary Pattern Variance (LBPV) is a texture feature where variance in contrast acts as adaptive factor during computation of local binary pattern (LBP) histogram. The LBP combines both structural and statistical approaches to texture analysis. This paper proposes an LBP Variance based approach to visual content based video retrieval. The proposed approach uses query by example paradigm for retrieving similar clips from the video. Experiments conducted on TRECVID dataset shows the efficacy of proposed approach.
Keywords: Content Based Retrieval; Local Binary Pattern Variance; Multimedia; Query by Example

K. Kuribayashi, N. Yoshida, H. Jin, Y.J. Orsolini, Y. Kasai, Optimal retrieval method to estimate ozone vertical profile in the mesosphere and lower thermosphere (MLT) region from submillimeter-wave limb emission spectra, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 192, May 2017, Pages 42-52, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2017.01.033.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407316306677)
Abstract: Abstract
Spectrum width and intensity of ozone (O3) observed in the MLT region behaves quite differently than in the stratosphere for submillimeter-wave limb emission spectroscopic observation. For example, O3 spectra in the stratosphere are stronger during the day than at night. Conversely, spectra in the MLT region at night are stronger than those occurring during the day due to diurnal variations in O3 behavior. These opposing behaviors cause problems, including oscillations and inaccuracies particularly for O3 vertical profiles in the MLT region retrieved with an application of one retrieval procedure for the entire vertical range (stratosphere to thermosphere). Recently, we developed an optimal retrieval method for O3 in the MLT region for spectra, observed by the Superconducting Submillimeter-Wave Limb-Emission Sounder (SMILES) instrument on the International Space Station. Optimizations were performed for frequency window range, retrieval vertical range, vertical grids, and a priori information for O3 and temperature. Precision and accuracy were evaluated by error analysis and comparisons with previous products. The random error was estimated to be about 5% and 35% in the mesosphere and lower thermosphere, respectively, for nighttime O3 profiles in the MLT region. The total systematic error was about 6% in the MLT region. Certain improvements for both random noise (from 50% to 35%) and systematic error (from 10% to 6%) were obtained. We succeeded in revealing the positive correlation between O3 and ClO at nighttime in the upper mesosphere using the optimized O3 profiles; furthermore, its chemical mechanism was explained quantitatively.
Keywords: SMILES; Ozone; MLT region

Meriem Amina Zingla, Latiri Chiraz, Yahya Slimani, Short Query Expansion for Microblog Retrieval, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 96, 2016, Pages 225-234, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.08.135.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916319366)
Abstract: Abstract
Twitter has emerged as the most popular among microblogging service providers. The content provided in Twitter is large, diverse, and huge in quantity. Given the increasing amount of information available through such microblogging sites, it would be interesting to be able to retrieve useful tweets in response to a given information need. However, Twitter's subscribers often have many difficulties dealing with its content. Especially in searching for tweets that satisfy their information needs. This problem becomes more complicated when the user-defined queries are short and precise. This paper deals with short and precise queries problem for micoblog retrieval. We expand short queries by semantically related terms extracted from Wikipedia, DBpedia and unstructured texts using textmining techniques. Experiments on TREC 2011 microblog collection show significant improvement in the retrieval performance.
Keywords: Short query expansion; Microblog retrieval; Wikipedia; DBpedia; TREC microblog

Chunping Yang, Jing Guo, Improved cloud phase retrieval approaches for China's FY-3A/VIRR multi-channel data using Artificial Neural Networks, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 127, Issue 4, February 2016, Pages 1797-1803, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2015.11.084.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S003040261501709X)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieving cloud phase accurately is important for cloud parameter studies, weather forecasting, and climate change research. Consequently, the purpose of this study is to develop better and more accurate cloud phase retrieval approaches to upgrade the current threshold technique used for China's second-generation polar-orbit meteorological satellite FengYun-3A (FY-3A). In this paper, improved cloud phase retrieval approaches using a supervised Back-Propagation Neural Network (BP-NN), and an unsupervised Self-Organizing Feature Map Neural Network (SOFM-NN) were proposed and investigated. The results of this study indicated that the two ANN approaches are satisfactory in discriminating cloud phase using FY-3A/Visible and InfRared Radiometer (VIRR) multi-channel data, and the average accuracy rates for the BP-NN approach are 93.50%, 93.81%, 94.25%, and 93.38% for the winter, spring, summer, and fall season categories, respectively, while for the SOFM-NN approach, rates are 91.93%, 92.08%, 92.63%, and 91.97%, respectively. The BP-NN approach performs slightly better than the SOFM-NN approach. Moreover, the two ANN approaches are found to perform more accurately than the current FY-3A operational product. Therefore, our work demonstrated that the ANN approaches provide an attractive alternative for cloud phase retrieval that could potentially be used to upgrade the current threshold technique used for the FY-3A operational product.
Keywords: Cloud phase retrieval; FY-3A/VIRR; Artificial Neural Network; Back-propagation; Self-organizing feature map

Debjit Roy, Ananth Krishnamurthy, Sunderesh S. Heragu, Charles Malmborg, A multi-tier linking approach to analyze performance of autonomous vehicle-based storage and retrieval systems, Computers & Operations Research, Volume 83, July 2017, Pages 173-188, ISSN 0305-0548, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cor.2017.02.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0305054817300503)
Abstract: Abstract
To improve operational flexibility, throughput capacity, and responsiveness in order fulfillment operations, several distribution centers are implementing autonomous vehicle-based storage and retrieval system (AVS/RS) in their high-density storage areas. In such systems, vehicles are self-powered to travel in horizontal directions (x- and y- axes), and use lifts or conveyors for vertical motion (z-axis). In this research, we propose a multi-tier queuing modeling framework for the performance analysis of such vehicle-based warehouse systems. We develop an embedded Markov chain based analysis approach to estimate the first and second moment of inter-departure times from the load-dependent station within a semi-open queuing network. The linking solution approach uses traffic process approximations to analyze the performance of sub-models corresponding to individual tiers (semi-open queues) and the vertical transfer units (open queues). These sub-models are linked to form an integrated queuing network model, which is solved using an iterative algorithm. Performance estimates such as expected transaction cycle times and resource (vehicle and vertical transfer unit) utilization are determined using this algorithm, and can be used to evaluate a variety of design configurations during the conceptualization phase.
Keywords: AVS/RS; Integrated queuing model; Linking algorithm; Embedded Markov chains; Semi-open queues

M. Teresa Lechuga, Juana M. Ortega-Tudela, Carlos J. Gómez-Ariza, Further evidence that concept mapping is not better than repeated retrieval as a tool for learning from texts, Learning and Instruction, Volume 40, December 2015, Pages 61-68, ISSN 0959-4752, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.learninstruc.2015.08.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959475215300232)
Abstract: Abstract
Karpicke and Blunt (2011) showed in college students that retrieval practice produced more learning from educational texts than concept mapping on a 1-week delayed test. This finding is surprising since concept mapping is thought to involve elaborative processing. Hence, the present study (N = 84; 76 females) aimed to examine whether the advantage of repeated retrieval remains when concept mapping is performed by ad hoc trained students or students who regularly utilise concept maps to prepare for exams. While the results essentially replicate Karpicke and Blunt's finding which shows that retrieval practice leads to better overall performance than concept mapping, this effect was less pronounced for people with experience using this technique than it was for trained participants. These findings point to the need to take retrieval-based learning into account in educational settings as well as to further investigate the conditions that may make retrieval activities more effective than concept mapping.
Keywords: Retrieval practice; Testing effect; Conceptual learning; Concept mapping

Fan Jiang, Hai-Miao Hu, Jin Zheng, Bo Li, A hierarchal BoW for image retrieval by enhancing feature salience, Neurocomputing, Volume 175, Part A, 29 January 2016, Pages 146-154, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.10.044.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215015039)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieving images with multiple features is an active research topic on boosting the performance of existing content-based image retrieval methods. The promising bags-of-words (BoW) models involve multiple features by applying feature fusion strategies in the early stage of image indexing. However, due to the different data forms of features, a simple joint may not guarantee a high retrieval performance. Moreover, a fused feature is not flexible enough to adapt to the variety of images. In order to avoid the submergence of feature salience, this letter proposes a hierarchal BoW to represent each feature in an individual codebook for obtaining the undisturbed ranks from each feature. Moreover, for feature salience enhancement, a query model based on ordinary-least-squared (OLS) regression is established for rank aggregation. The query model weighs each feature according to its retrieval performance and then selects the target images. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method improves the accuracy compared to the state-of-the-arts, meanwhile it maintains the stability.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Hierarchal BoW; Feature salience enhancement; Query model

Shubhangi P. Meshram, Anuradha D. Thakare, Santwana Gudadhe, Hybrid Swarm Intelligence Method for Post Clustering Content Based Image Retrieval, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 79, 2016, Pages 509-515, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.03.065.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916001964)
Abstract: Abstract
Content Based Image Retrieval is one of the most promising method for image retrieval where searching and retrieving images from large scale image database is a critical task. In Content Based Image Retrieval many visual feature like color, shape, and texture are extracted in order to match query image with stored database images. Matching the query image with each image of large scale database results in large number of disc scans which in turns slows down the systems performance.

The proposed work suggested an approach for post clustering Content Based Image Retrieval, in which the database images are clustered into optimized clusters for further retrieval process. Various clustering algorithms are implemented and results are compared. Among all, it is found that hybrid ACPSO algorithm performs better over basic algorithms like k-means, ACO, PSO etc. Hybrid ACPSO has the capability to produce good cluster initialization and form global clustering.

This paper discusses work-in-progress where we have implemented till clustering module and intermediate results are produced. These resulted clusters will further be used for effective Content Based Image Retrieval.
Keywords: Content Based Image Retrieval (CBIR); Image Clustering; Ant Colony Optimization (ACO); Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO); Hybrid ACPSO.

Cyril Höschl IV, Jan Flusser, Robust histogram-based image retrieval, Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 69, 1 January 2016, Pages 72-81, ISSN 0167-8655, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2015.10.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167865515003633)
Abstract: Abstract
We present a histogram-based image retrieval method which is designed specifically for noisy query images. The images are retrieved according to histogram similarity. To reach high robustness to noise, the histograms are described by newly proposed features which are insensitive to a Gaussian additive noise in the original images. The advantage of the new method is proved theoretically and demonstrated experimentally on real data.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Noisy image; Histogram; Convolution; Moments; Invariants

Xinxue Ma, Jianli Wang, Spherical mirror testing by phase retrieval wavefront sensor, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 127, Issue 4, February 2016, Pages 2396-2400, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2015.09.159.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402615012280)
Abstract: Abstract
In order to verify the estimated wavefront ability of the phase retrieval wavefront sensor (PRWS), a measured spherical mirror of experiment platform was set up with the method of PRWS. PRWS technology is based on the focal plane image information wavefront solver in the focal plane wavefront measured technology, whose principle is sampling a number of the given defocus images; get the wavefront phase information by solving the optical system wavefront with Fourier optical diffractive theory and mathematics optimization. In order to validate the veracity of PRWS, both the PRWS measurement results and ZYGO interferometer measurement results were compared; experimental results demonstrate that agreement is obtained among the errors distribution, PV value and RMS value of ZYGO interferometer, so PRWS technology can effectively estimate the aberrations of spherical mirror.
Keywords: Phase retrieval; Wavefront sensor; Spherical mirror; Zernike polynomial; Aberration

Alper Aksac, Orkun Ozturk, Erdogan Dogdu, A novel semantic web browser for user centric information retrieval: PERSON, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 39, Issue 15, 1 November 2012, Pages 12001-12013, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2012.03.056.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417412005799)
Abstract: As semantic web technologies mature and consequently more semantic web data is published on the web, there is a growing need for tools to access and use this data in user friendly ways. The most generic tool to access semantic web data is the common web browser. Developing plug-ins for advanced web browsers is one way of adding semantic information to web documents automatically or semi-automatically. To enable this enhancement, we present a novel semantic web browser called PERSON which is short for PERsonal Semantic extensiON. PERSON is an extension for Mozilla Firefox Web Browser and it adds semantics to users’ browsing experience by annotating web resources, associating them in categorical, entity-based manner and presenting more meaningful, structured documents to users. As a notable difference, semantic layer provided by PERSON works not only on web pages navigated by users but also on RSS data of user choice. Additionally, acquired content from web resources associated with linked data domains bring users together with structured information easily. In this paper, we evaluate PERSON as a new approach for semantic web browsing and present the analysis, design and implementation of PERSON and compare its features with related tools.
Keywords: Semantic web browsing; Semantic annotation; Information extraction; Named entity recognition; Linked data

Kim Uittenhove, Catherine Thevenot, Pierre Barrouillet, Fast automated counting procedures in addition problem solving: When are they used and why are they mistaken for retrieval?, Cognition, Volume 146, January 2016, Pages 289-303, ISSN 0010-0277, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cognition.2015.10.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S001002771530086X)
Abstract: Abstract
Contrary to a widespread assumption, a recent study suggested that adults do not solve very small additions by directly retrieving their answer from memory, but rely instead on highly automated and fast counting procedures (Barrouillet &amp; Thevenot, 2013). The aim of the present study was to test the hypothesis that these automated compiled procedures are restricted to small quantities that do not exceed the size of the focus of attention (i.e., 4 elements). For this purpose, we analyzed the response times of ninety adult participants when solving the 81 additions with operands from 1 to 9. Even when focusing on small problems (i.e. with sums ⩽10) reported by participants as being solved by direct retrieval, chronometric analyses revealed a strong size effect. Response times increased linearly with the magnitude of the operands testifying for the involvement of a sequential multistep procedure. However, this size effect was restricted to the problems involving operands from 1 to 4, whereas the pattern of response times for other small problems was compatible with a retrieval hypothesis. These findings suggest that very fast responses routinely interpreted as reflecting direct retrieval of the answer from memory actually subsume compiled automated procedures that are faster than retrieval and deliver their answer while the subject remains unaware of their process, mistaking them for direct retrieval from long-term memory.
Keywords: Problem solving; Retrieval; Arithmetic; Association; Numerical cognition

Anderson H.F.F. Leão, Alícia Cabral, Geison S. Izídio, Alessandra M. Ribeiro, Regina H. Silva, Diazepam effects on aversive memory retrieval and extinction: Role of anxiety levels, Pharmacology Biochemistry and Behavior, Volume 141, February 2016, Pages 42-49, ISSN 0091-3057, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pbb.2015.11.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0091305715301003)
Abstract: Abstract
Benzodiazepines (BDZs) are anxiolytic drugs that impair memory acquisition. Previous studies using the plus-maze discriminative avoidance task (PMDAT, which assesses memory and anxiety concomitantly) indicated that the effects of BDZs on anxiety and acquisition are related to each other. The possible influence of the anxiolytic action of BDZs on their effects on memory retrieval and extinction are poorly understood. This is relevant considering the relationship between aversive memories and anxiety disorders. We designed a modified protocol of PMDAT that evaluates anxiety during retrieval and extinction of the task. Male Wistar rats were trained in the PMDAT (plus-maze with two open and two enclosed arms) using a standard or a modified protocol. In the standard protocol, the aversive stimuli were presented in one of the enclosed arms during training, and the animal had free access to the whole apparatus. In the modified protocol, the open arms were blocked with glass walls. Twenty-four hours after training, the animals subjected to each of the protocols were treated with saline or 2.0 mg/kg of diazepam (DZP) 30 min before the test. There was a third session in the maze (retest) 24 h after the test. During the test, DZP impaired and improved retrieval in rats that had been trained in the standard and the modified protocol when compared to the respective saline-treated groups. In addition, treatment with DZP prior to the test induced anxiolysis, but only in the animals that were not pre-exposed to the open arms of the apparatus (modified protocol). In these animals, DZP impaired extinction, which was evaluated during retest session. The impairing effect of DZP on extinction seems to be related to its anxiolytic action during the test (extinction learning). Further, we suggest that aversive memory retrieval depends on both the treatment and the arousal elicited by exposure to the apparatus.
Keywords: Memory; Retrieval; Extinction; Anxiety; Benzodiazepine; One-trial tolerance

Maria Stefania De Simone, Lucia Fadda, Roberta Perri, Marta Aloisi, Carlo Caltagirone, Giovanni Augusto Carlesimo, Does retrieval frequency account for the pattern of autobiographical memory loss in early Alzheimer's disease patients?, Neuropsychologia, Volume 80, 8 January 2016, Pages 194-200, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2015.11.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393215302384)
Abstract: Abstract
Episodic autobiographical memory (ABM) has been found to be impaired from the early stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Previous works have focused on how ABM decreases over the lifespan, but no study has deeply investigated whether the extent of episodic autobiographical amnesia is mediated by the retrieval frequency of the episodic trace itself. The aim of the present study was to determine whether the frequency of trace retrieval has an effect on the quality of autobiographical incidents recall and whether the extent of this contribution changes over time. For this purpose, the episodic component of ABM was assessed in patients in the early stage of AD through a questionnaire which allowed evaluating memory of past personal incidents as a function of both their age of acquisition and retrieval frequency. We found that both AD patients and healthy controls took advantage of greater retrieval frequency across all time segments, because of their better memory performance on frequently retrieved episodes than less frequently retrieved ones. Although in the AD group the retrieval frequency effect (i.e., higher scores on the episodes rated as more frequently retrieved) was found in all time segments, the extent of its beneficial effect on memory performance was temporally-graded and inversely related to the time course. Our findings provide new evidence that the combined action of both age of memory and retrieval frequency could provide a valuable framework for predicting patterns of ABM loss, at least in early AD patients. In line with the Multiple Trace Theory, we speculated that retrieval frequency protects episodic trace recall against hippocampal damage by reinforcing the neural representation of personal context-rich memories, which consequently are easier to access and recall. Furthermore, the age of memory should change the amplitude of this beneficial effect as a function of the remoteness of the trace.
Keywords: Alzheimer's disease; Autobiographical memory interview; Multiple trace theory; Retrieval frequency; Cortical reallocation theory

Buddhika Bellana, Zhongxu Liu, John A.E. Anderson, Morris Moscovitch, Cheryl L. Grady, Laterality effects in functional connectivity of the angular gyrus during rest and episodic retrieval, Neuropsychologia, Volume 80, 8 January 2016, Pages 24-34, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2015.11.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393215302190)
Abstract: AbstractIntroduction
The angular gyrus (AG) is consistently reported in neuroimaging studies of episodic memory retrieval and is a fundamental node within the default mode network (DMN). Its specific contribution to episodic memory is debated, with some suggesting it is important for the subjective experience of episodic recollection, rather than retrieval of objective episodic details. Across studies of episodic retrieval, the left AG is recruited more reliably than the right. We explored functional connectivity of the right and left AG with the DMN during rest and retrieval to assess whether connectivity could provide insight into the nature of this laterality effect.
Methods
Using data from the publically available 1000 Functional Connectome Project, 8 min of resting fMRI data from 180 healthy young adults were analysed. Whole-brain functional connectivity at rest was measured using a seed-based Partial Least Squares (seed-PLS) approach (McIntosh and Lobaugh, 2004) with bilateral AG seeds. A subsequent analysis used 6-min of rest and 6-min of unconstrained, silent retrieval of autobiographical events from a new sample of 20 younger adults. Analysis of this dataset took a more targeted approach to functional connectivity analysis, consisting of univariate pairwise correlations restricted to nodes of the DMN.
Results
The seed-PLS analysis resulted in two Latent Variables that together explained ~86% of the shared cross-block covariance. The first LV revealed a common network consistent with the DMN and engaging the AG bilaterally, whereas the second LV revealed a less robust, yet significant, laterality effect in connectivity – the left AG was more strongly connected to the DMN. Univariate analyses of the second sample again revealed better connectivity between the left AG and the DMN at rest. However, during retrieval the left AG was more strongly connected than the right to non-medial temporal (MTL) nodes of the DMN, and MTL nodes were more strongly connected to the right AG.
Discussion
The multivariate analysis of resting connectivity revealed that the left and right AG show similar connectivity with the DMN. Only after accounting for this commonality were we able to detect a left laterality effect in DMN connectivity. Further probing with univariate connectivity analyses during retrieval demonstrates that the left preference we observe is restricted to the non-MTL regions of the DMN, whereas the right AG shows significantly better connectivity with the MTL. These data suggest bilateral involvement of the AG during retrieval, despite the focus on the left AG in the literature. Furthermore, the results suggest that the contribution of the left AG to retrieval may be separable from that of the MTL, consistent with a role for the left AG in the subjective aspects of recollection in memory, whereas the MTL and the right AG may contribute to objective recollection of specific memory details.
Keywords: Angular gyrus; Episodic memory; Default mode network; Retrieval; Rest; Functional connectivity; Recollection network

Bert De Smedt, Chapter 9 - Individual Differences in Arithmetic Fact Retrieval, In Mathematical Cognition and Learning, edited by Daniel B. Berch, David C. Geary and Kathleen Mann Koepke, Academic Press, San Diego, 2016, Pages 219-243, Development of Mathematical Cognition, ISBN 9780128018712, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-801871-2.00009-5.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128018712000095)
Abstract: Abstract
In this chapter I summarize research on individual differences in arithmetic fact retrieval through the lens of educational neuroscience. By generating predictions about underlying cognitive processes based on neuroimaging data, developmental behavioral studies have revealed that symbolic numerical magnitude processing plays a unique role in children’s early arithmetic facts acquisition. Such studies also suggest that phonological processing might play a role in fact retrieval. Other studies in educational neuroscience point to the recruitment of a widespread brain network during fact retrieval, including the prefrontal cortex, inferior parietal cortex, and the medial temporal lobe. The fact that the organization of this network changes over time highlights the continuing need for developmental imaging studies.
Keywords: Arithmetic fact retrieval; Individual differences; Numerical magnitude processing; Phonological processing; Educational neuroscience; Inferior parietal cortex; Fronto-parietal network

Gagan Deep, Lakhwinder Kaur, Savita Gupta, Biomedical Image Indexing and Retrieval Descriptors: A Comparative Study, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 85, 2016, Pages 954-961, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.05.287.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916306378)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper focuses on the comparison of two new proposed pattern descriptors i.e., local mesh ternary pattern (LMeTerP) and directional local ternary quantized extrema pattern (DLTerQEP) for biomedical image indexing and retrieval. The standard local binary patterns (LBP) and local ternary patterns (LTP) encode the gray scale relationship between the center pixel and its surrounding neighbors in two dimensional (2D) local region of an image whereas the former descriptor encodes the gray scale relationship among the neighbors for a given center pixel with three selected directions of mess patterns which is generated from 2D image and later descriptor encodes the spatial relation between any pair of neighbors in a local region along the given directions (i.e., 0̊, 45̊, 90̊ and 135̊) for a given center pixel in an image. The novelty of the proposed descriptors is that they use ternary patterns from images to encode more spatial structure information which lead to better retrieval. The experimental results demonstrate the superiority of the new techniques in terms of average retrieval precision (ARP) and average retrieval rate (ARR) over state-of-the-art feature extraction techniques (like LBP, LTP, LQEP, LMeP etc.) on three different types of benchmark biomedical databases.
Keywords: Medical imaging; Image retrieval; Local binary pattern (LBP); Local ternary pattern (LTP); local mesh ternary pattern; directional local ternary quantized extrema pattern; Texture

Amir Zidi, Amna Bouhana, Mourad Abed, Afef Fekih, An Ontology-based Personalized Retrieval Model Using Case Base Reasoning, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 35, 2014, Pages 213-222, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2014.08.101.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050914010667)
Abstract: Abstract
A novel ontology-Based Personalized Retrieval model using the Case Base Reasoning (CBR) tool is designed and presented in this paper. The proposed approach is aimed at achieving a scalable and user friendly data retrieval system with high retrieval performance where search results are ranked based on user preferences. The proposed retrieval framework integrates the advantages of two methods, a content-based method (ontology) to represent data and a case-based method (CBR) to personalize the search process and to provide users with alternative documents recommendations. To analyze the performance of the proposed approach, computer experiments are carried out using recall-precision curve and average precision (AP) metric. The performance of our approach is then compared to a framework that uses the classic vector space model. Results clearly indicate the strength of the proposed approach as well as its ability to accurately retrieve pertinent information. The proposed approach is particularly promising in applicable related to city logistics, especially in the field of itinerary research for urban freight transport.
Keywords: Case base reasoning; ontology; personalized search; information retrieval; query formulation.

Kevin A. Corcoran, Brendan J. Frick, Jelena Radulovic, Leslie M. Kay, Analysis of coherent activity between retrosplenial cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, and anterior cingulate cortex during retrieval of recent and remote context fear memory, Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, Volume 127, January 2016, Pages 93-101, ISSN 1074-7427, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nlm.2015.11.019.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1074742715002282)
Abstract: Abstract
Memory for contextual fear conditioning relies upon the retrosplenial cortex (RSC) regardless of how long ago conditioning occurred, whereas areas connected to the RSC, such as the dorsal hippocampus (DH) and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) appear to play time-limited roles. To better understand whether these brain regions functionally interact during memory processing and how the passage of time affects these interactions, we simultaneously recorded local field potentials (LFPs) from these three regions as well as anterior dorsal thalamus (ADT), which provides one of the strongest inputs to RSC, and measured coherence of oscillatory activity within the theta (4–12 Hz) and gamma (30–80 Hz) frequency bands. We identified changes of theta coherence related to encoding, retrieval, and extinction of context fear, whereas changes in gamma coherence were restricted to fear extinction. Specifically, exposure to a novel context and retrieval of recently acquired fear conditioning memory were associated with increased theta coherence between RSC and all three other structures. In contrast, RSC–DH and RSC–ADT theta coherence were decreased in mice that successfully retrieved, relative to mice that failed to retrieve, remote memory. Greater RSC–ADT theta and gamma coherence were observed during recent, compared to remote, extinction of freezing responses. Thus, the degree of coherence between RSC and connected brain areas may predict and contribute to context memory retrieval and retrieval-related phenomena such as fear extinction. Importantly, although theta coherence in this circuit increases during memory encoding and retrieval of recent memory, failure to decrease RSC–DH theta coherence might be linked to retrieval deficit in the long term, and possibly contribute to aberrant memory processing characteristic of neuropsychiatric disorders.
Keywords: Retrosplenial cortex; Fear; Coherence; Local field potential; Retrieval; Extinction

Zhili Wang, Kun Gao, Dajiang Wang, Phase retrieval with the reverse projection method in the presence of object's scattering, Radiation Physics and Chemistry, Available online 31 December 2015, ISSN 0969-806X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.radphyschem.2015.12.026.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0969806X15301535)
Abstract: Abstract
X-ray grating interferometry can provide substantially increased contrast over traditional attenuation-based techniques in biomedical applications, and therefore novel and complementary information. Recently, special attention has been paid to quantitative phase retrieval in X-ray grating interferometry, which is mandatory to perform phase tomography, to achieve material identification, etc. An innovative approach, dubbed “Reverse Projection” (RP), has been developed for quantitative phase retrieval. The RP method abandons grating scanning completely, and is thus advantageous in terms of higher efficiency and reduced radiation damage. Therefore, it is expected that this novel method would find its potential in preclinical and clinical implementations. Strictly speaking, the reverse projection method is applicable for objects exhibiting only absorption and refraction. In this contribution, we discuss the phase retrieval with the reverse projection method for general objects with absorption, refraction and scattering simultaneously. Especially, we investigate the influence of the object's scattering on the retrieved refraction signal. Both theoretical analysis and numerical experiments are performed. The results show that the retrieved refraction signal is the product of object's refraction and scattering signals for small values. In the case of a strong scattering, the reverse projection method cannot provide reliable phase retrieval. Those presented results will guide the use of the reverse projection method for future practical applications, and help to explain some possible artifacts in the retrieved images and/or reconstructed slices.
Keywords: X-ray imaging; Grating interferometry; Reverse projection; Phase retrieval

Jan L. Harrington, Chapter 18 - Advanced Retrieval Operations, In Relational Database Design and Implementation (Fourth edition), Morgan Kaufmann, Boston, 2016, Pages 375-398, ISBN 9780128043998, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-804399-8.00018-1.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128043998000181)
Abstract: Abstract
This chapter covers advanced retrieval operations such as unions, negative queries, special operators (EXISTS, EXCEPT, AND INTERSECTION), arithmetic in SQL queries, string manipulation, and date and time manipulation.
Keywords: SQL; SQL retrieval; SQL UNION; SQL EXISTS; SQL EXCEPT; SQL INSTERSECT; SQL arithmetic; SQL string manipulation; SQL date manipulation; SQL time manipulation

Zhiyu Zhang, Wenjian Ni, Guoqing Sun, Wenli Huang, Kenneth J. Ranson, Bruce D. Cook, Zhifeng Guo, Biomass retrieval from L-band polarimetric UAVSAR backscatter and PRISM stereo imagery, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 194, 1 June 2017, Pages 331-346, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2017.03.034.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425717301384)
Abstract: Abstract
The forest above-ground biomass (AGB) and spatial distribution of vegetation elements have profound effects on the productivity and biodiversity of terrestrial ecosystems. In this paper, we evaluated biomass estimation from L-band Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) data acquired by National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Uninhabited Aerial Vehicle SAR (UAVSAR) and the improvement of accuracy by adding canopy height information derived from stereo imagery acquired by Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Panchromatic Remote Sensing Instrument for Stereo Mapping (PRISM) on-board the Advanced Land Observing Satellite (ALOS). Various models for prediction of forest biomass from UAVSAR data were investigated at pixel sizes of 1/4 ha (50 m × 50 m) and 1 ha. The variance inflation factor (VIF) was calculated for each of the explanatory variables in multivariable regression models to assess the multi-collinearity between explanatory variables. In addition, the t- and p-values were used to interpret the significance of the coefficients of each explanatory variables. The R2, Root Mean Square Error (RMSE), bias and Akaike information criterion (AIC), and leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV) and bootstrapping were used to validate models. At 1/4-ha scale, the R2 and RMSE of biomass estimation from a model using a single track of polarimetric UAVSAR data were 0.59 and 52.08 Mg/ha. With canopy height from PRISM as additional independent variable, R2 increased to 0.76 and RMSE decreased to 39.74 Mg/ha (28.24%). At 1-ha scale, the RMSE of biomass estimation based on UAVSAR data of a single track was 39.42 Mg/ha with a R2 of 0.77. With the canopy height from PRISM, R2 increased to 0.86 and RMSE decreased to 29.47 Mg/ha (20.18%). The models using UAVSAR data alone underestimated biomass at levels above ~ 150 Mg/ha showing the saturation phenomenon. Adding canopy height from PRISM stereo imagery significantly improved the biomass estimation and elevated the saturation level in estimating biomass. Combined use of UAVSAR data acquired from opposite directions (odd and even tracks) slightly improved the biomass estimation. Combined use of UAVSAR data acquired from opposite directions (odd and even tracks) slightly improved the biomass estimation at 1/4-ha scale, R2 increased from 0.59 to 0.66 and RMSE reduced from 52.08 to 48.57 Mg/ha. Averaging multiple acquisitions of UAVSAR data from the same look azimuth direction did not improve biomass estimation. A biomass map derived from NASA's LVIS (Laser Vegetation Imaging System) waveform data was used as a reference for evaluation of the biomass maps from these models. The study has also shown that the errors decreased when deciduous, evergreen, and mixed forests were modeled separately but the improvement was not significant.
Keywords: Forest biomass; Canopy height; Radar; UAVSAR; Prism; Stereo imagery; Incidence angle

Zuobing Xu, Ram Akella, Improving probabilistic information retrieval by modeling burstiness of words, Information Processing & Management, Volume 46, Issue 2, March 2010, Pages 143-158, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2009.12.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457309001435)
Abstract: The classical probabilistic models attempt to capture the ad hoc information retrieval problem within a rigorous probabilistic framework. It has long been recognized that the primary obstacle to the effective performance of the probabilistic models is the need to estimate a relevance model. The Dirichlet compound multinomial (DCM) distribution based on the Polya Urn scheme, which can also be considered as a hierarchical Bayesian model, is a more appropriate generative model than the traditional multinomial distribution for text documents. We explore a new probabilistic model based on the DCM distribution, which enables efficient retrieval and accurate ranking. Because the DCM distribution captures the dependency of repetitive word occurrences, the new probabilistic model based on this distribution is able to model the concavity of the score function more effectively. To avoid the empirical tuning of retrieval parameters, we design several parameter estimation algorithms to automatically set model parameters. Additionally, we propose a pseudo-relevance feedback algorithm based on the mixture modeling of the Dirichlet compound multinomial distribution to further improve retrieval accuracy. Finally, our experiments show that both the baseline probabilistic retrieval algorithm based on the DCM distribution and the corresponding pseudo-relevance feedback algorithm outperform the existing language modeling systems on several TREC retrieval tasks. The main objective of this research is to develop an effective probabilistic model based on the DCM distribution. A secondary objective is to provide a thorough understanding of the probabilistic retrieval model by a theoretical understanding of various text distribution assumptions.
Keywords: Probabilistic retrieval model (PRM); Dirichlet distribution; Language model (LM)

Katia Lupinetti, Franca Giannini, Marina Monti, Jean-Philippe Pernot, Automatic Extraction of Assembly Component Relationships for Assembly Model Retrieval, Procedia CIRP, Volume 50, 2016, Pages 472-477, ISSN 2212-8271, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2016.04.148.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212827116303882)
Abstract: Abstract
Even if during the Product Design Process, assembly models are described in terms of their constitutive components and associated relationships, only the position of each component is often stored within the Digital Mock-Up. Thus, the mating information are lost. However, these relationships are crucial for many applications, such as retrieval, assembly planning and finite element simulations. In this paper, we propose a method for the detection and use of the mating relationships for assembly model retrieval. The proposed approach detects and analyses the interferences between parts to compute their degree of freedom and kinematic pairs. To support the retrieval of assembly models, the extracted information are formalized and capitalized in a newly proposed hierarchical assembly model descriptor. Results of the application of the method are also provided to show the system capabilities. Moreover, considering that a same joint can be defined in multiple ways, this work provides also a method for retrieving assemblies in a dataset according to the part relationships and their class of equivalence.
Keywords: Contact analysis; Degree of freedom detection; Assembly model retrieval

Ke Wang, Jun Tang, Nian Wang, Ling Shao, Semantic Boosting Cross-Modal Hashing for efficient multimedia retrieval, Information Sciences, Volume 330, 10 February 2016, Pages 199-210, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2015.10.028.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025515007562)
Abstract: Abstract
Cross-modal hashing aims to embed data from different modalities into a common low-dimensional Hamming space, which serves as an important part in cross-modal retrieval. Although many linear projection methods were proposed to map cross-modal data into a common abstract space, the semantic similarity between cross-modal data was often ignored. To address this issue, we put forward a novel cross-modal hashing method named Semantic Boosting Cross-Modal Hashing (SBCMH). To preserve the semantic similarity, we first apply multi-class logistic regression to project heterogeneous data into a semantic space, respectively. To further narrow the semantic gap between different modalities, we then use a joint boosting framework to learn hash functions, and finally transform the mapped data representations into a measurable binary subspace. Comparative experiments on two public datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed SBCMH.
Keywords: Cross-modal hashing; Multimedia retrieval; Boosting

Emir Sokic, Samim Konjicija, Phase preserving Fourier descriptor for shape-based image retrieval, Signal Processing: Image Communication, Volume 40, January 2016, Pages 82-96, ISSN 0923-5965, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.image.2015.11.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923596515001897)
Abstract: Abstract
Shape is one of the most important discriminative elements for the content based image retrieval and the most challenging for quantification and description. Fourier descriptors are a very efficient shape description method used in shape-based image retrieval tasks. In order to achieve invariance under rotation and starting point change, most Fourier descriptor implementations disregard the phase of Fourier coefficients, consequently losing valuable information about the shape. This paper proposes a novel method of extracting Fourier descriptors that preserve the phase of Fourier coefficients. We introduce specific points, called pseudomirror points, and use them as a shape orientation reference. They facilitate the extraction of phase-preserving Fourier descriptors which are invariant under translation, scaling, rotation and starting point change. The proposed descriptor was tested on four popular benchmarking datasets: MPEG7 CE-1 Set B, Swedish leaf, ETH-80 and Kimia99 datasets. Performance and computational complexity measures indicate that the proposed method outperforms other state-of-the-art phase-based Fourier descriptors. In addition, it outperforms other state-of-the-art magnitude-based Fourier descriptors, and many non-Fourier based shape description methods in terms of performance – complexity ratio.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval; Fourier descriptors; Phase; Nominal orientation; Pseudomirror points

B. Jyothi, Y. MadhaveeLatha, P.G. Krishna Mohan, V.S.K. Reddy, Integrated Multiple Features for Tumor Image Retrieval Using Classifier and Feedback Methods, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 85, 2016, Pages 141-148, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.05.200.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916305488)
Abstract: Abstract
The content based image retrieval method greatly assists in retrieving medical images close to the query image from a large database basing on their visual features. This paper presents an effective approach in which the region of the object is extracted with the help of multiple features ignoring the background of the object by employing edge following segmentation method followed by extracting texture and shape characteristics of the images. The former is extracted with the help of Steerable filter at different orientations and radial Chebyshev moments are used for extracting the later. Initially the images similar to the query image are extracted from a large group of medical images. Then the search is by accelerating the retrieval process with the help of Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier. The performance of the retrieval system is enhanced by adapting the subjective feedback method. The experimental results show that the proposed region based multiple features and integrated with classifier and subjective feedback method yields better results than classical retrieval systems.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval; Multiple features ;SVM Classifier ;Relevance feedback.

S. Labarre, C. Ferrari, S. Jacquemoud, Surface roughness retrieval by inversion of the Hapke model: A multiscale approach, Icarus, Volume 290, 1 July 2017, Pages 63-80, ISSN 0019-1035, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.icarus.2017.02.030.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0019103516304833)
Abstract: Abstract
Surface roughness is a key property of soils that controls many surface processes and influences the scattering of incident electromagnetic waves at a wide range of scales. Hapke (2012b) designed a photometric model providing an approximate analytical solution of the Bidirectional Reflectance Distribution Function (BRDF) of a particulate medium: he introduced the effect of surface roughness as a correction factor of the BRDF of a smooth surface. This photometric roughness is defined as the mean slope angle of the facets composing the surface, integrated over all scales from the grain size to the local topography. Yet its physical meaning is still a question at issue, as the scale at which it occurs is not clearly defined. This work aims at better understanding the relative influence of roughness scales on soil BRDF and to test the ability of the Hapke model to retrieve a roughness that depicts effectively the ground truth. We apply a wavelet transform on millimeter digital terrain models (DTM) acquired over volcanic terrains. This method allows splitting the frequency band of a signal in several sub-bands, each corresponding to a spatial scale. We demonstrate that sub-centimeter surface features dominate both the integrated roughness and the BRDF shape. We investigate the suitability of the Hapke model for surface roughness retrieval by inversion on optical data. A global sensitivity analysis of the model shows that soil BRDF is very sensitive to surface roughness, nearly as much as the single scattering albedo according to the phase angle, but also that these two parameters are strongly correlated. Based on these results, a simplified two-parameter model depending on surface albedo and roughness is proposed. Inversion of this model on BRDF data simulated by a ray-tracing code over natural targets shows a good estimation of surface roughness when the assumptions of the model are verified, with a priori knowledge on surface albedo.
Keywords: Earth; Geological processes; Photometry

David Maillet, Daniel L. Schacter, From mind wandering to involuntary retrieval: Age-related differences in spontaneous cognitive processes, Neuropsychologia, Volume 80, 8 January 2016, Pages 142-156, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2015.11.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393215302323)
Abstract: Abstract
The majority of studies that have investigated the effects of healthy aging on cognition have focused on age-related differences in voluntary and deliberately engaged cognitive processes. Yet many forms of cognition occur spontaneously, without any deliberate attempt at engaging them. In this article we review studies that have assessed age-related differences in four such types of spontaneous thought processes: mind-wandering, involuntary autobiographical memory, intrusive thoughts, and spontaneous prospective memory retrieval. These studies suggest that older adults exhibit a reduction in frequency of both mind-wandering and involuntary autobiographical memory, whereas findings regarding intrusive thoughts have been more mixed. Additionally, there is some preliminary evidence that spontaneous prospective memory retrieval may be relatively preserved in aging. We consider the roles of age-related differences in cognitive resources, motivation, current concerns and emotional regulation in accounting for these findings. We also consider age-related differences in the neural correlates of spontaneous cognitive processes.
Keywords: Aging; Spontaneous cognition; Mind-wandering; Involuntary autobiographical retrieval; Intrusive thoughts; Prospective memory

Henning Gibbons, Jutta Stahl, Cognitive load reduces visual identity negative priming by disabling the retrieval of task-inappropriate prime information: An ERP study, Brain Research, Volume 1330, 12 May 2010, Pages 101-113, ISSN 0006-8993, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2010.03.022.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899310005664)
Abstract: The present event-related potentials (ERP) study investigated the mechanisms by which cognitive load reduces the negative priming (NP) effect in a letter flanker task. On each trial, participants (N = 20) first encoded a set of one to five digits, then responded to two successive flanker displays (prime, probe), and finally recalled a certain digit from the set. The flanker NP effect (i.e., increased probe RT when the prime distractor repeated as the probe target) was significant under low (1–2 items) but not high cognitive load (4–5 items). NP in the low-load condition was accompanied by left-anterior P2/N2 amplitude modulation which was also observed for prime–probe target repetitions and hence may reflect the processing of prime–probe similarity. Under high load, the P2/N2 effect was absent. It is suggested that cognitive load interferes with a retrieval-based mechanism in NP. Findings support episodic-retrieval explanations of visual identity-based NP.
Keywords: Visual stimuli; Identity negative priming; Event-related potential; Cognitive load; Episodic retrieval

Yeong-Yuh Xu, Multiple-instance learning based decision neural networks for image retrieval and classification, Neurocomputing, Volume 171, 1 January 2016, Pages 826-836, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.07.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215010012)
Abstract: Abstract
The revolutionary Internet and digital technologies have spawned a need for technology that can organize abundantly available digital images for easy categorization and retrieval. Hence, content-based image retrieval (CBIR) has become one of the most active research areas for the last few decades. However, it is still an open issue to narrow down the gap between the high level semantics in the human minds and the low level features computable by machines. This paper proposes a multiple-instance learning based decision neural network (MI-BDNN) that attempts to bridge the semantic ga in CBIR. Multiple-instance learning (MIL) is a variation of supervised learning, where the training set is composed of many bags, and each bag contains many instances. If a bag contains at least one positive instance, it is labelled as a positive bag; otherwise, it is labelled as a negative bag. A novel discriminant function and learning schemes are employed in the MI-BDNN to learn the concept from the training bags. The proposed approach considers the image retrieval problem as a MIL problem, where a user׳s preferred image concept is learned by training MI-BDNN with a set of exemplar images, each of which is labelled as conceptual related (positive) or conceptual unrelated (negative) image. The MI-BDNN based CBIR system is developed, and the results of the experiments showed that MI-BDNN can successfully be used for real image retrieval and classification problems.
Keywords: Multiple instance learning; Content based image retrieval; Image classification; Neural networks; Multiple-instance learning based decision neural networks; MI-BDNN

Shan Zeng, Rui Huang, Haibing Wang, Zhen Kang, Image retrieval using spatiograms of colors quantized by Gaussian Mixture Models, Neurocomputing, Volume 171, 1 January 2016, Pages 673-684, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.07.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215009820)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper we propose a novel image representation method that characterizes an image as a spatiogram--a generalized histogram--of colors quantized by Gaussian Mixture Models (GMMs). First, we quantize the color space using a GMM, which is learned by the Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm from the training images. The number of Gaussian components (i.e., the number of quantized color bins) is determined automatically according to the Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC). Second, we incorporate the spatiogram representation with the quantized Gaussian mixture color model. Intuitively, a spatiogram is a histogram in which the distribution of colors is spatially weighted by the locations of the pixels contributing to each color bin. We have modified the spatiogram representation to fit our framework, which employs Gaussian color components instead of discrete color bins. Finally, the comparison between two images is achieved by measuring the similarity between two spatiograms, for which purpose we propose a new measurement adopting the Jensen–Shannon Divergence (JSD). We applied the new image representation and comparison method to the image retrieval task. The experiments on several publicly available COREL image datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed image representation for image retrieval.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Color quantization; Spatiogram; Gauss Mixture Model; Jensen–Shannon Divergence

Lucie Angel, Christine Bastin, Sarah Genon, Eric Salmon, Séverine Fay, Evelyne Balteau, Pierre Maquet, André Luxen, Michel Isingrini, Fabienne Collette, Neural correlates of successful memory retrieval in aging: Do executive functioning and task difficulty matter?, Brain Research, Volume 1631, 15 January 2016, Pages 53-71, ISSN 0006-8993, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2015.10.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899315007465)
Abstract: Abstract
The current experiment aimed to explore age differences in brain activity associated with successful memory retrieval in older adults with different levels of executive functioning, at different levels of task demand. Memory performance and fMRI activity during a recognition task were compared between a young group and two older groups characterized by a low (old-low group) vs. high (old-high group) level of executive functioning. Participants first encoded pictures, presented once (Hard condition) or twice (Easy condition), and then completed a recognition memory task. Old-low adults had poorer memory performance than the two other groups, which did not differ, in both levels of task demands. In the Easy condition, even though older adults demonstrated reduced activity compared to young adults in several regions, they also showed additional activations in the right superior frontal gyrus and right parietal lobule (positively correlated to memory accuracy) for the old-high group and in the right precuneus (negatively correlated to memory accuracy), right anterior cingulate gyrus and right supramarginal gyrus for the old-low group. In the Hard condition, some regions were also more activated in the young group than in the older groups. Vice versa, old-high participants demonstrated more activity than either the young or the old-low group in the right frontal gyrus, associated with more accurate memory performance, and in the left frontal gyrus. In sum, the present study clearly showed that age differences in the neural correlates of retrieval success were modulated by task difficulty, as suggested by the CRUNCH model, but also by interindividual variability, in particular regarding executive functioning.
Keywords: FMRI; Aging; Retrieval success; Task difficulty; Executive functioning

Athira Nambiar, Alexandre Bernardino, Jacinto Nascimento, Shape Context for soft biometrics in person re-identification and database retrieval, Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 68, Part 2, 15 December 2015, Pages 297-305, ISSN 0167-8655, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2015.07.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167865515002019)
Abstract: Abstract
We introduce a novel descriptor for the analysis of pedestrians and its applications to person re-identification and database retrieval. A Shape Context descriptor of the head-torso region of persons’ silhouettes is shown to have a very good discrimination ability and application to re-identification. For database retrieval using human queries, we train a map from the Shape Context to interpretable soft biometric quantities that can be reasoned about by humans. We show that a good linear correlation exists between Shape Context descriptors and soft biometrics quantities in the upper human torso and illustrate its application to retrieval in databases from human queries. Shape Context to biometrics maps are learned from virtual avatars rendered by computer graphics engines, to circumvent the need for time-consuming manual labelling of data sets. We obtained promising results of Shape Context based person re-identification and database retrieval from human compliant description of biometric traits, in both synthetic data and real imagery.
Keywords: Multimedia; Soft biometrics; Shape Context; Re-Identification; Silhouettes; Retrieval; Surveillance

Yuanyuan Xu, Yawei Wang, Ying Ji, Weifeng Jin, Min Bu, Minjie Liang, Hao Han, A derivative method of phase retrieval based on two interferograms with an unknown phase shift, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 127, Issue 1, January 2016, Pages 326-330, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2015.10.055.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402615014102)
Abstract: Abstract
Phase retrieval is one of the important study fields in the optical metrology of phase objects. In this paper, a rapid derivative method of phase retrieval is proposed that can both extract phase and determine an unknown phase shift based on two-step phase-shifting interferometry (PSI). By numerically calculating the first-order derivatives of two PSI images with the random phase distribution, one can directly obtain the quantitative phase image, without the need for dealing with the background term and reference intensity. We give the method with the theory, and illustrate it using the simulations of a ball and a red blood cell (RBC) and an optical experiment of a polystyrene sphere. From which, the effectiveness and accuracy of this method is verified, but the error of the experimental result is larger than that of the simulated result.
Keywords: Phase retrieval; Two-step phase-shifting interferometry; Derivative; Random phase distribution; Phase objects

Kiran Ashok Bhandari, R. Manthalkar Ramchandra, An Innovative Remote Sensing Image Retrieval Techniques Based on Haar Wavelet-LTRP and ANFIS, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 79, 2016, Pages 391-401, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.03.051.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916001824)
Abstract: Abstract
In the existing Remote sensing image retrieval methods, the images are extracted from the remote sensing image database by means of three characteristic models they are visual features, object features and the scene feature. Although this technique achieves high retrieval accurateness, the precision value is low down. In order to enhance the efficiency and precision value even more higher a Haar wavelet based LTRP technique is proposed in this paper. To extract the object feature instead of earlier new watershed segmentation(NWS) method, Haar wavelet based LTRP technique is used. In the proposed technique, at first the visual features are removed from the images by means of the spatial spectral heterogeneity technique. Afterwards the object features are removed by applying the Haar wavelet and the object features are extracted from the wavelet band by developing LTRP method and the Extracted object features are classified by Neuro-Fuzzy system typically known as ANFIS. Subsequently Scene semantic models are used for the recovery of parallel scene images from the database. The projected RSIR system based on Haar wavelet-LTRP and ANFIS technique are executed in working platform of MATLAB. The performance is measured by utilizing a compilation of remote sensing images taken from the database. In addition the recital is examined by comparing the projected Haar wavelet-LTRP method with the NWSRSIR and the usual SBRSIR method in terms of performance estimate metrics such as precision, recall and F-Measure rate. The implementation effects show the competence of projected Haar wavelet based LTRP method in Remote sensing image retrieval method.
Keywords: Remote Sensing Image Retrieval (RSIR); Local Tetra Pattern (LTRP); Artificial Neural Network Fuzzy Inference System (ANFIS); Scene Semantic (SS).

Meng Li, Howard Leung, Zhiguang Liu, Liuyang Zhou, 3D human motion retrieval using graph kernels based on adaptive graph construction, Computers & Graphics, Volume 54, February 2016, Pages 104-112, ISSN 0097-8493, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cag.2015.07.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0097849315001089)
Abstract: Abstract
Graphs are frequently used to provide a powerful representation for structured data. However, it is still a challenging task to model 3D human motions due to its large spatio-temporal variations. This paper proposes a novel graph-based method for real time 3D human motion retrieval. Firstly, we propose a novel graph construction method which connects the joints that are deemed important for a given motion. In particular, the top-N Relative Ranges of Joint Relative Distances (RRJRD) were proposed to determine which joints should be connected in the resulting graph because these measures indicate the normalized activity levels among the joint pairs. Different motions may thus result in different graph structures so the construction of the graphs is made adaptive to the characteristics of a given motion and is able to represent a meaningful spatial structure. In addition to the spatial structure, the temporal pyramid of covariance descriptors was adopted to preserve certain level of spatio-temporal local features. The graph kernel is computed by matching the walks from each of the two graphs to be matched. Furthermore, multiple kernel learning was applied to determine the optimal weights for combining the graph kernels to measure the overall similarity between two motions. The experimental results show that our method is robust under several variations, and demonstrates superior performance in comparison to three state-of-the-art methods.
Keywords: Motion retrieval; Adaptive graph; Graph kernel; Motion capture; Multiple kernel learning

Ionuţ Mironică, Bogdan Ionescu, Jasper Uijlings, Nicu Sebe, Fisher Kernel Temporal Variation-based Relevance Feedback for video retrieval, Computer Vision and Image Understanding, Volume 143, February 2016, Pages 38-51, ISSN 1077-3142, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cviu.2015.10.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1077314215002155)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper proposes a novel framework for Relevance Feedback based on the Fisher Kernel (FK). Specifically, we train a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) on the top retrieval results (without supervision) and use this to create a FK representation, which is therefore specialized in modelling the most relevant examples. We use the FK representation to explicitly capture temporal variation in video via frame-based features taken at different time intervals. While the GMM is being trained, a user selects from the top examples those which he is looking for. This feedback is used to train a Support Vector Machine on the FK representation, which is then applied to re-rank the top retrieved results. We show that our approach outperforms other state-of-the-art relevance feedback methods. Experiments were carried out on the Blip10000, UCF50, UCF101 and ADL standard datasets using a broad range of multi-modal content descriptors (visual, audio, and text).
Keywords: Relevance feedback; Fisher Kernel representation; Multimodal content description; Video retrieval

Yin Zhang, Weiming Lu, Yang Liu, Fei Wu, Kernelized sparse hashing for scalable image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 172, 8 January 2016, Pages 207-214, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.02.080.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215005950)
Abstract: Abstract
Recently, hashing has been widely applied to large scale image retrieval applications due to its appealing query speed and low storage cost. The key idea of hashing is to learn a hash function that maps high dimensional data into compact binary codes while preserving the similarity structure in the original feature space. In this paper, we propose a new method called the Kernelized Sparse Hashing, which generates sparse hash codes with ℓ1 and non-negative regularizations. Compared to traditional hashing methods, our method only activates a small number of relevant bits on the hash code and hence provides a more compact and interpretable representation of data. Moreover, the kernel trick is introduced to capture the nonlinear similarity of features, and the local geometrical structure of data is explicitly considered in our method to improve the retrieval accuracy. Extensive experiments on three large-scale image datasets demonstrate the superior performance of our proposed method over the examined state-of-the-art techniques.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Hashing; Sparse coding; Kernel methods

Ricardo Eito-Brun, Knowledge dissemination patterns in the information retrieval industry: A case study for automatic classification techniques, World Patent Information, Volume 39, December 2014, Pages 50-57, ISSN 0172-2190, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wpi.2014.06.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0172219014000957)
Abstract: Abstract
Patents provide valuable information to identify flows in the transfer of technical knowledge and assess the innovation capabilities of the actors involved in different industries. Patent citations are also recognized as a valid tool to measure the impact of innovations and to identify key influencers in diverse activity sectors.

This study analyzes a collection of U.S. patents granted in the period between 1990 and 2012 for the subject “automatic document clustering and classification”, a key technology within the Information Retrieval and Text Mining disciplines. The purpose of this research is to identify – using citation analysis – the most productive and influential companies and journals, and the patterns followed in the transfer and sharing of technical knowledge. The paper identifies the most productive organizations (those that have been granted a higher number of patents) and those with a higher impact (organizations whose patents have received a major number of citations), and compares the generated rankings with those obtained using traditional bibliometric indicators. The conclusions provide an overview of the innovation landscape in the area of study, and suggest to which extent bibliometric indicators match the conclusions obtained after analyzing productivity and impact using patent citation.
Keywords: Citation analysis; Automatic document classification; Document clustering; Bibliometric indicators; Innovation capability assessment

Mingming Ji, Yinfu Feng, Jun Xiao, Yueting Zhuang, Xiaosong Yang, Jian J. Zhang, Efficient semi-supervised multiple feature fusion with out-of-sample extension for 3D model retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 169, 2 December 2015, Pages 23-33, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.12.112.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215006876)
Abstract: Abstract
Multiple visual features have been proposed and used in 3-dimensional (3D) model retrieval in recent years. Since each visual feature reflects a unique characteristic about the model, they have unequal discriminative power with respect to a specific category of 3D model, and they are complementary to each other in model representation. Thus, it would be beneficial to combine multiple visual features together in 3D model retrieval. In light of this, we propose an efficient Semi-supervised Multiple Feature Fusion (SMFF) method for view-based 3D model retrieval in this paper. Specifically, We first extract multiple visual features to describe both the local and global appearance characteristics of multiple 2D projected images that are generated from 3D models. Then, SMFF is adopted to learn a more compact and discriminative low-dimensional feature representation via multiple feature fusion using both the labeled and unlabeled 3D models. Once the low-dimensional features have been learned, many existing methods such as SVM and KNN can be used in the subsequent retrieval phase. Moreover, an out-of-sample extension of SMFF is provided to calculate the low-dimensional features for the newly added 3D models in linear time. Experiments on two public 3D model datasets demonstrate that using such a learned feature representation can significantly improve the performance of 3D model retrieval and the proposed method outperforms the other competitors.
Keywords: 3D model retrieval; Multiple feature fusion; Out-of-sample; Semi-supervised learning

Krista Alikas, Susanne Kratzer, Improved retrieval of Secchi depth for optically-complex waters using remote sensing data, Ecological Indicators, Volume 77, June 2017, Pages 218-227, ISSN 1470-160X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolind.2017.02.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1470160X17300559)
Abstract: Abstract
Water transparency is one of the ecological indicators for describing water quality and the underwater light field which determines its productivity. In the European Water Framework Directive (WFD) as well as in the European Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD) water transparency is used for ecological status classification of inland, coastal and open sea waters and it is regarded as an indicator for eutrophication in Baltic Sea management (HELCOM, 2007). We developed and compared different empirical and semi-analytical algorithms for lakes and coastal Nordic waters to retrieve Secchi depth (ZSD) from remote sensing data (MERIS, 300 m resolution). The algorithms were developed in water bodies with high coloured dissolved organic matter absorption (aCDOM(442) ranging 1.7–4.0 m−1), Chl a concentration (0.5–73 mg m−3) and total suspended matter (0.7–37.5 g m−3) and validated against an independent data set over inland and coastal waters (0.6 m &lt; ZSD &lt; 14.8 m). The results indicate that for empirical algorithms, using longer wavelengths in the visible spectrum as a reference band decreases the RMSE and increases the coefficient of determination (R2). The accuracy increased (R2 = 0.75, RMSE = 1.33 m, n = 134) when ZSD was retrieved via an empirical relationship between ZSD and Kd(490). The best agreement with in situ data was attained when ZSD was calculated via both the diffuse and the beam attenuation coefficient (R2 = 0.89, RMSE = 0.77 m, n = 89). The results demonstrate that transparency can be retrieved with high accuracy over various optical water types by the means of ocean color remote sensing, improving both the spatial and temporal coverage. The satellite derived ZSD product could be therefore used as an additional source of information for WFD and MSFD reporting purposes.
Keywords: Secchi depth; ENVISAT/MERIS; Sentinel-3/OLCI; Lakes; Optically complex waters; Water framework directive; Environmental monitoring

Stephen J. Gray, Geoffrey Brookshire, Daniel Casasanto, David A. Gallo, Electrically stimulating prefrontal cortex at retrieval improves recollection accuracy, Cortex, Volume 73, December 2015, Pages 188-194, ISSN 0010-9452, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cortex.2015.09.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010945215003275)
Abstract: Abstract
Neuroimaging and brain damage studies suggest that dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) is involved in the cognitive control of episodic recollection. If dlPFC is causally involved in retrieval, then transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) of this brain region should increase recollection accuracy, especially when recollection is difficult and requires cognitive control. Here, we report the first brain stimulation experiment to directly test this hypothesis. We administered tDCS to dlPFC immediately after studying to-be-learned material but just prior to recollection testing, thereby targeting retrieval processes. We found that stimulation of dlPFC significantly increased recollection accuracy, relative to a no-stimulation sham condition and also relative to active stimulation of a comparison region in left parietal cortex. There was no significant difference in the size of this increase between hemispheres. Moreover, these dlPFC stimulation effects were behaviorally selective, increasing accuracy only when participants needed to recollect difficult information. Electrically stimulating dlPFC allowed people to more accurately recollect specific details of their experiences, demonstrating a causal role of dlPFC in the retrieval of episodic memories.
Keywords: Brain stimulation; tDCS; Retrieval monitoring; Criterial recollection; Source memory

Adrian Iftene, Baboi Alexandra-Mihaela, Using Semantic Resources in Image Retrieval, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 96, 2016, Pages 436-445, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.08.093.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916318828)
Abstract: Abstract
The need of humans to socialize and share information has led to a constantly growing Web, which has become a support for social media. Every day, worldwide users are pushing multimedia data towards their family, friends and the world at large. This is the reason why, web search has also become the main method for people to fulfill their information needs. The common modality used for image search on the web is based on text, the assumption being that the tags and the textual descriptions associated with photos are powerful ways to describe and retrieve images. The results are usually obtained by simply matching the terms of the query to an index of terms associated to the images in a corpus. The efficiency of this technique depends strongly on the tags associated to pictures, as well as their accuracy. Trying to search for images with bridges in this kind of systems, the result set will only contain images explicitly annotated with this term, but will fail to include images with Pont Neuf or Ponte Vecchio, if their tags do not contain the noun bridge. In this paper, we present a system designed to perform diversification in an image retrieval system, using semantic resources like YAGO, Wikipedia and WordNet.
Keywords: Image retrieval; YAGO; Wikipedia; WordNet

Xiyu Yang, Xueming Qian, Tao Mei, Learning salient visual word for scalable mobile image retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Volume 48, Issue 10, October 2015, Pages 3093-3101, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2014.12.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320314005287)
Abstract: Abstract
Owing to the portable and excellent phone camera, people now prefer to take photos and share them in social networks with their friends. If a user wants to obtain relevant information about an image, content based image retrieval method can be utilized. Taking the limited bandwidth and instability of wireless channel into account, in this paper we propose an effective scalable mobile image retrieval approach by exploiting the advantage of mobile end that people usually take multiple photos of an object in different viewpoints and focuses. The proposed algorithm first determines the truly relevant photos according to visual similarity in mobile end, then learns salient visual words by exploring saliency from these relevant images, and finally determines the contribution order of salient visual words to carry out scalable retrieval. Moreover, to improve the retrieval performance, soft spatial verification is proposed to re-rank the results. Compared to the existing approaches of mobile image retrieval, our approach transmits less data and reduces the computational cost of spatial verification. Most importantly, when the bandwidth is limited, we can transmit only a part of features according their contributions to retrieval. Experimental results show the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Keywords: Mobile image retrieval; Scalable retrieval; Salient visual word (SVW); Multiple relevant photos; Spatial verification

Weidong Xu, Martin J. Wooster, Takayuki Kaneko, Jiangping He, Tianran Zhang, Daniel Fisher, Major advances in geostationary fire radiative power (FRP) retrieval over Asia and Australia stemming from use of Himarawi-8 AHI, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 193, May 2017, Pages 138-149, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2017.02.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425717300834)
Abstract: Abstract
Characterising the highly variable temporal dynamics of landscape-scale fire activity is best achieved using geostationary satellites, and the Himawari-8 Advanced Himawari Imager (AHI) now provides views of Asian and Australian fires at an unprecedented 10 min temporal resolution and 2 km nadir thermal channel spatial resolution. We here develop the first processing system to identify active fires and retrieve their fire radiative power (FRP) from AHI data, based on the geostationary Fire Thermal Anomaly (FTA) algorithm and FRP retrieval method originally developed for use with Meteosat SEVIRI over Africa and Europe. This scheme detects active fires covering as little as 10− 3 to 10− 4 of an AHI pixel, and we compare performance to the same scheme applied to data from the forerunner geostationary MTSAT imager and the FengYun-2 (FY-2) Stretched Visible and Infrared Spin Scan Radiometer (S-VISSR), and also to 1 km (at nadir) polar-orbiting MODIS active fire data. We find major benefits of Himawari-8 AHI over both MTSAT and FY-2, being able to detect a substantially greater proportion of fire activity and with little impact from sensor saturation. AHI-derived FRP retrievals of detected fires show a very strong agreement and a low (3 MW) bias with respect to near-simultaneous MODIS retrievals, though fires having FRP ≤ 40 MW are undercounted by AHI due to its 4 × larger pixel area (at nadir) than MODIS. Large parts of Asia are characterised by smaller/lower FRP fires associated with e.g. agricultural residue burning, meaning many are at or below this AHI minimum FRP detection limit, and during June 2015 AHI fails to detect around 66% of the hotspots that MODIS detects when both sensors view the same area simultaneously. However, AHI provides 144 observation opportunities per day compared to 4 typical observations from MODIS, and shows a low (8%) active fire detection error of commission. We demonstrate the unique value of the geostationary FRP retrievals made from AHI data for full fire diurnal cycle assessment and for Fire Radiative Energy (FRE) calculations. We conclude that these FRP data demonstrate major benefits for studies of active fires over Asia and Australia, and expect them to become an important component of the global geostationary active fire observation system.
Keywords: Biomass burning; Fire radiative power; Himawari-8; Geostationary

Mallikarjun Hangarge, Veershetty C., Rajmohan Pardeshi, B.V. Dhandra, Gabor Wavelets Based Word Retrieval from Kannada Documents, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 79, 2016, Pages 441-448, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.03.057.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916001885)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we propose a technique for word retrieval based on Gabor wavelets. Gabor wavelets are employed to capture directional energy features of the word image. A pre-processing step is performed in order to improve the quality of the document images, at the same time word segmentation is accomplished using 294 document images. As a result, a large dataset of 45000 words is generated for experimentation. Then, Gabor wavelets are used to represent the candidate word as well as a query word. Then cosine distance is used to measure the similarity between two words, based on it, relevance of the word is estimated by generating distance ranks. Then correctly matched words are selected at different distance thresholds such as 96%, 97%, 98% and 99%. The results achieved are encouraging in terms of average precision 81.25%, average recall 82.09% and F measure 84.53% at a threshold 97%.
Keywords: Kannada word retrieval; Gabor wavelets; Document image retrieval; Cosine distance

E. Alberca-Reina, J.L. Cantero, M. Atienza, Impact of sleep loss before learning on cortical dynamics during memory retrieval, NeuroImage, Volume 123, December 2015, Pages 51-62, ISSN 1053-8119, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2015.08.033.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811915007454)
Abstract: Abstract
Evidence shows that sleep loss before learning decreases activation of the hippocampus during encoding and promotes forgetting. But it remains to be determined which neural systems are functionally affected during memory retrieval after one night of recovery sleep. To investigate this issue, we evaluated memory for pairs of famous people's faces with the same or different profession (i.e., semantically congruent or incongruent faces) after one night of undisturbed sleep in subjects who either underwent 4 hours of acute sleep restriction (ASR, N = 20) or who slept 8 hours the pre-training night (controls, N = 20). EEG recordings were collected during the recognition memory task in both groups, and the cortical sources generating this activity localized by applying a spatial beamforming filter in the frequency domain. Even though sleep restriction did not affect accuracy of memory performance, controls showed a much larger decrease of alpha power relative to a baseline period when compared to sleep-deprived subjects. These group differences affected a widespread frontotemporoparietal network involved in retrieval of episodic/semantic memories. Regression analyses further revealed that associative memory in the ASR group was negatively correlated with alpha power in the occipital regions, whereas the benefit of congruency in the same group was positively correlated with delta power in the left lateral prefrontal cortex. Retrieval-related decreases of alpha power have been associated with the reactivation of material-specific memory representations, whereas increases of delta power have been related to inhibition of interferences that may affect the performance of the task. We can therefore draw the conclusion that a few hours of sleep loss in the pre-training night, though insufficient to change the memory performance, is sufficient to alter the processes involved in retrieving and manipulating episodic and semantic information.
Keywords: Acute sleep restriction; Associative memory; EEG oscillations; Memory retrieval; Sleep loss

Hela Haj Mohamed, Samir Belaid, Algorithm BOSS (Bag-of-Salient local Spectrums) for non-rigid and partial 3D object retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 168, 30 November 2015, Pages 790-798, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.05.045.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215007213)
Abstract: Abstract
The aim of the proposed algorithm is to expedite three-dimensional objects indexing and retrieval. Investigating the Bag-of-Features (BoF) paradigm, we focus on a set of extracted local descriptors from 3D objects. Using scalar function calculated on the surface mesh, the algorithm extracts the salient points, and then associates each of these points with a local Fourier descriptor. The descriptor is computed on the neighboring salient points by projecting the geometry onto the first eigenvectors of Laplace–Beltrami operator. Additionally, through an offline learning step, a visual dictionary is built by clustering a large set of feature descriptors. Then, each 3D shape is described by a histogram of these visual words occurrences weighted using the number of their local descriptors. Experimental results show the highly discriminative capability of the proposed approach against rigid and non-rigid transformations, noise and geometry changes. The performance of our algorithm is also demonstrated on global and partial shape retrieval.
Keywords: 3D shape retrieval; Bag of Features; Laplace–Beltrami operator; Heat kernel diffusion; Auto-diffusion distance

Qiuli Liu, Zechao Li, Projective nonnegative matrix factorization for social image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 172, 8 January 2016, Pages 19-26, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.09.094.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215005937)
Abstract: Abstract
Increasingly many social images with tags are available on photo sharing websites. Due to the subjectivity and diversity of social tagging behaviors, noisy and missing tags for images are inevitable. To tackle this problem, this paper proposes a novel factor analysis model, named ProjecTive Nonnegative Matrix Factorization (PTNMF) with ℓ 2 , 1 -norm regularization, which introduces linear transformation and ℓ 2 , 1 -norm minimization into a joint framework of NMF. For tagging data, a new interpretation is adopted to distinguish the relevant tags and irrelevant tags instead of the typically used binary scheme. In our model, the image latent representation is assumed to be projected from its original feature representation with an orthogonal transformation matrix. The projection makes convenient to embed any images including out-of-samples into the latent space. That is, the proposed method enables to handle the out-of-sample problem. The ℓ 2 , 1 -norm regularization makes the transformation matrix suitable for selecting the effective features. Local geometry preservations of image space (tag space) are explored as constraints in order to make image similarity (tag correlation) consistent in the original space and the corresponding latent space. We investigate the performance of the proposed method on image retrieval and compare it to existing work on the challenging NUS-WIDE dataset. Extensive experiments indicate the effectiveness and potentials of the proposed method in real-world applications.
Keywords: Nonnegative matrix factorization; Latent subspace; Image retrieval

Qian Gao, Xiangjun Dong, Deqian Fu, A Context-Aware Mobile User Behavior Based Preference Neighbor Finding Approach for Personalized Information Retrieval, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 56, 2015, Pages 471-476, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.07.237.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915017184)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper adopts a new approach to searching the users with similarinterests by mobile network services instead of by desktop users. First, the direct trustis calculated based on the mobile users’ behavior andthe weight of the corresponding context (time and position), then an indirect trust degree calculation method is proposed according to the propagationdistance based on the theory of the six degrees of separation; secondly this paper further uses the evaluation score about a certain mobile web service given by a mobile user to calculate the preference similarity degree between different users. Finally based on the time attenuation functionit tries to find the users with similar preference,so as to make use of the neighbor users’ preference profile to dynamicallyupdate the target user's preference profile. Simulation shows that the proposed approach outperformspure sliding window methodand pure forgetting strategy method which fail totake the context mobile information into considerationin terms of Recall Ratio and Precision Ratio.
Keywords: Multi-Agent; Context; Trust Degree; Interest Similarity Degree; Time Attenuation ;

Evangelos Bampas, Nikos Leonardos, Euripides Markou, Aris Pagourtzis, Matoula Petrolia, Improved periodic data retrieval in asynchronous rings with a faulty host, Theoretical Computer Science, Volume 608, Part 3, 10 December 2015, Pages 231-254, ISSN 0304-3975, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tcs.2015.09.019.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304397515008488)
Abstract: Abstract
The exploration problem has been extensively studied in unsafe networks containing malicious hosts of a highly harmful nature, called black holes, which completely destroy mobile agents that visit them. In a recent work, Královič and Miklík (SIROCCO 2010, LNCS 6058, pp. 157–167) [20] considered various types of malicious host behavior in the context of the Periodic Data Retrieval problem in asynchronous ring networks with exactly one malicious host. In this problem, a team of initially co-located agents must report data from all safe nodes of the network to the homebase, infinitely often. The malicious host can choose whether to kill visiting agents or allow them to pass through (gray hole). In another variation of the model, the malicious host can, in addition, alter its whiteboard contents in order to deceive visiting agents. The goal is to design a protocol for Periodic Data Retrieval using as few agents as possible.

In this paper, we present the first nontrivial lower bounds on the number of agents for Periodic Data Retrieval in asynchronous ring networks. Specifically, we show that at least 4 agents are needed when the malicious host is a gray hole, and at least 5 agents are needed when the malicious host whiteboard is unreliable. This improves the previous lower bound of 3 in both cases and answers an open question posed in the aforementioned paper.

On the positive side, we propose an optimal protocol for Periodic Data Retrieval in asynchronous rings with a gray hole, which solves the problem with only 4 agents. This improves the previous upper bound of 9 agents and settles the question of the optimal number of agents in the gray-hole case. Finally, we propose a protocol with 7 agents when the whiteboard of the malicious host is unreliable, significantly improving the previously known upper bound of 27 agents. Along the way, we set forth a detailed framework for studying networks with malicious hosts of varying capabilities.
Keywords: Distributed algorithm; Mobile agent; Periodic data retrieval; Malicious host; Gray hole; Red hole; Unreliable whiteboard

Dongxu Yang, Yi Liu, Zhaonan Cai, Jianbo Deng, Jing Wang, Xi Chen, An advanced carbon dioxide retrieval algorithm for satellite measurements and its application to GOSAT observations, Science Bulletin, Volume 60, Issue 23, December 2015, Pages 2063-2066, ISSN 2095-9273, https://doi.org/10.1007/s11434-015-0953-2.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927316302602)
Abstract: Abstract
An advanced carbon dioxide retrieval algorithm for satellite observations has been developed at the Institute of Atmospheric Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. The algorithm is tested using Greenhouse gases Observing SATellite (GOSAT) L1B data and validated using the Total Column Carbon Observing Network (TCCON) measurements. The retrieved XCO2 agrees well with TCCON measurements in a low bias of 0.15 ppmv and RMSE of 1.48 ppmv, and captured the seasonal variation and increasing of XCO2 in Northern and Southern Hemisphere, respectively, as other measurements.
Keywords: Retrieval algorithm; Satellite remote sensing; Carbon dioxide; Carbon flux; GOSAT

Matthew G. Teeter, Michael J. Carroll, Gilles Walch, George S. Athwal, Tribocorrosion in shoulder arthroplasty humeral component retrievals, Journal of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery, Volume 25, Issue 2, February 2016, Pages 311-315, ISSN 1058-2746, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jse.2015.07.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S105827461500378X)
Abstract: Background
Tribocorrosion at the modular taper connections of total hip implants has been associated with trunnionosis and adverse local tissue reactions. Modularity is also widely used in shoulder arthroplasty implants, but little information exists about the potential for tribocorrosion. This study hypothesized that there would be mild or no tribocorrosion in a series of retrieved shoulder implants.
Methods
A total of 28 implants with a mean implantation time of 6.2 ± 6.0 years were evaluated using a validated damage scoring method. Implant tapers on the head and stem were divided into upper (deepest) and lower zones and independently scored for fretting and corrosion damage from 1 (none) to 4 (severe).
Results
Corrosion was present on 32% of heads and 38% of stems, whereas fretting was present on 36% of heads and 46% of stems. There was significantly greater (P = .02) corrosion in the lower zone of the retrieved stems (1.4 ± 0.5) than there was in the upper zone (1.1 ± 0.3). Correlation between the head and stem corrosion for lower zone was moderate (r = 0.41; P = .04).
Discussion
Tribocorrosion was present on the heads and stems of some of the retrieved shoulder implants examined in this study. The incidence of tribocorrosion in shoulder implants was lower than in reported cases of retrieved hip implants. The greatest damage was in the lower zone of the taper, where the connection may be exposed to the surrounding joint fluid. It remains to be seen whether this leads to any clinical presentation of trunnionosis.
Keywords: Shoulder arthroplasty; humeral component; revision; tribocorrosion; fretting; corrosion; trunnionosis; retrieval

Min Huang, Huazhong Shu, Yaqiong Ma, Qiuping Gong, Content-based image retrieval technology using multi-feature fusion, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 126, Issue 19, October 2015, Pages 2144-2148, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2015.05.095.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402615004088)
Abstract: Abstract
Due to the diversity of the image content, different images have different focuses, image retrieval system based on single feature has a lower performance, and it cannot apply to all images, so an image retrieval method using multi-feature fusion is proposed. In this method, the color moment in RGB color space in combination with the color histogram in HSV color space is used for color feature extraction, the improved Zernike moments are used for shape feature extraction, and the gray level co-occurrence matrix is used for texture feature extraction, then combining these three features. Finally, respectively using color features, shape features, texture features as well as the fused features for image retrieval, the experimental results show that the image retrieval method based on multi-feature fusion has better retrieval performance.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Multi-feature; Similarity; Normalization; Relevance feedback

Guangyou Zhou, Yin Zhou, Tingting He, Wensheng Wu, Learning semantic representation with neural networks for community question answering retrieval, Knowledge-Based Systems, Volume 93, 1 February 2016, Pages 75-83, ISSN 0950-7051, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2015.11.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705115004207)
Abstract: Abstract
In community question answering (cQA), users pose queries (or questions) on portals like Yahoo! Answers which can then be answered by other users who are often knowledgeable on the subject. cQA is increasingly popular on the Web, due to its convenience and effectiveness in connecting users with queries and those with answers. In this article, we study the problem of finding previous queries (e.g., posed by other users) which may be similar to new queries, and adapting their answers as the answers to the new queries. A key challenge here is to the bridge the lexical gap between new queries and old answers. For example, “company” in the queries may correspond to “firm” in the answers. To address this challenge, past research has proposed techniques similar to machine translation that “translate” old answers to ones using the words in the new queries. However, a key limitation of these works is that they assume queries and answers are parallel texts, which is hardly true in reality. As a result, the translated or rephrased answers may not look intuitive.

In this article, we propose a novel approach to learn the semantic representation of queries and answers by using a neural network architecture. The learned semantic level features are finally incorporated into a learning to rank framework. We have evaluated our approach using a large-scale data set. Results show that the approach can significantly outperform existing approaches.
Keywords: Community question answering; Question retrieval; Text mining; Yahoo! Answers

Zhiyong Zeng, Liwei Song, Qicai Zheng, Yanling Chi, A new image retrieval model based on monogenic signal representation, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 33, November 2015, Pages 85-93, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2015.08.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320315001571)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper proposes a novel image retrieval model based on monogenic signal representation. An original image is decomposed into three complementary components: amplitude, orientation and phase by monogenic signal representation. The monogenic variation in each local region and monogenic feature in each pixel are encoded, and then the statistical features of the local features encoded are calculated. In order to overcome the problem of high feature dimensionality, the local statistical features extracted from the complementary monogenic components are projected by block-based fisher discriminant analysis, which not only reduces the dimensionality of the features extracted, but also enhances its discriminative power. Finally, these features reduced are fused for effective image retrieval. Experimental results show that our scheme can effectively describe an image, and obviously improve the average retrieval precision.
Keywords: Monogenic signal representation; Local binary pattern; Directional texture descriptor; Content-based image retrieval; Block-based Fisher linear discriminant; Feature fusion; Amplitude; Orientation; Phase

Dimitrios Markonis, Markus Holzer, Frederic Baroz, Rafael Luis Ruiz De Castaneda, Célia Boyer, Georg Langs, Henning Müller, User-oriented evaluation of a medical image retrieval system for radiologists, International Journal of Medical Informatics, Volume 84, Issue 10, October 2015, Pages 774-783, ISSN 1386-5056, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijmedinf.2015.04.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1386505615000829)
Abstract: AbstractPurpose
This article reports the user-oriented evaluation of a text- and content-based medical image retrieval system. User tests with radiologists using a search system for images in the medical literature are presented. The goal of the tests is to assess the usability of the system, identify system and interface aspects that need improvement and useful additions. Another objective is to investigate the system's added value to radiology information retrieval. The study provides an insight into required specifications and potential shortcomings of medical image retrieval systems through a concrete methodology for conducting user tests.
Methods
User tests with a working image retrieval system of images from the biomedical literature were performed in an iterative manner, where each iteration had the participants perform radiology information seeking tasks and then refining the system as well as the user study design itself. During these tasks the interaction of the users with the system was monitored, usability aspects were measured, retrieval success rates recorded and feedback was collected through survey forms.
Results
In total, 16 radiologists participated in the user tests. The success rates in finding relevant information were on average 87% and 78% for image and case retrieval tasks, respectively. The average time for a successful search was below 3 min in both cases. Users felt quickly comfortable with the novel techniques and tools (after 5 to 15 min), such as content-based image retrieval and relevance feedback. User satisfaction measures show a very positive attitude toward the system's functionalities while the user feedback helped identifying the system's weak points. The participants proposed several potentially useful new functionalities, such as filtering by imaging modality and search for articles using image examples.
Conclusion
The iterative character of the evaluation helped to obtain diverse and detailed feedback on all system aspects. Radiologists are quickly familiar with the functionalities but have several comments on desired functionalities. The analysis of the results can potentially assist system refinement for future medical information retrieval systems. Moreover, the methodology presented as well as the discussion on the limitations and challenges of such studies can be useful for user-oriented medical image retrieval evaluation, as user-oriented evaluation of interactive system is still only rarely performed. Such interactive evaluations can be limited in effort if done iteratively and can give many insights for developing better systems.
Keywords: Usability tests; User-centered design; Medical informatics applications; Content-based image retrieval

Jeffrey D. Johnson, Anna K. McGhee, Electrophysiological evidence for strategically orienting retrieval toward the specific age of a memory, Brain and Cognition, Volume 100, November 2015, Pages 41-48, ISSN 0278-2626, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bandc.2015.09.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278262615300245)
Abstract: Abstract
For over a century, memory researchers have extensively studied the differences between retrieving memories that were encoded in the remote past as opposed to recently. Although this work has largely focused on the changes that these memory traces undergo over time, an unexplored issue is whether retrieval attempts and other strategic processes might be differentially oriented in order to effectively access memories of different ages. The current study addressed this issue by instructing participants to retrieve words that were encoded either one week (remote) or about 30 minutes earlier (recent). To maximize the possibility that participants adopted distinct retrieval orientations, separate blocks of the memory test employed exclusion task procedures in which the words from only one encoding period were targeted at a given time, in the face of distractors from the other period. Event-related potentials (ERPs) elicited by correctly-rejected new items were contrasted to minimize confounding effects of retrieval success. The new-item ERPs revealed differences according to the targeted week, such that the ERPs over posterior scalp were more positive-going for the recent compared to remote blocks. Furthermore, using multiple methods, these ERP effects were dissociated from differences in difficulty across the two conditions. The findings provide novel evidence that knowledge about when a memory was initially encoded leads to differences in the adoption of retrieval processing strategies.
Keywords: Episodic memory; Remote memory; Retrieval orientation; EEG; ERPs

S. Cogliati, W. Verhoef, S. Kraft, N. Sabater, L. Alonso, J. Vicent, J. Moreno, M. Drusch, R. Colombo, Retrieval of sun-induced fluorescence using advanced spectral fitting methods, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 169, November 2015, Pages 344-357, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2015.08.022.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425715301085)
Abstract: Abstract
The FLuorescence EXplorer (FLEX) satellite mission, candidate of ESA's 8th Earth Explorer program, is explicitly optimized for detecting the sun-induced fluorescence emitted by plants. It will allow consistent measurements around the O2-B (687 nm) and O2-A (760 nm) bands, related to the red and far-red fluorescence emission peaks respectively, the photochemical reflectance index, and the structural-chemical state variables of the canopy. The sun-induced fluorescence signal, overlapped to the surface reflected radiance, can be accurately retrieved by employing the powerful spectral fitting technique. In this framework, a set of fluorescence retrieval algorithms optimized for FLEX are proposed in this study. Two main retrieval approaches were investigated: i) the optimization of the spectral fitting for retrieving fluorescence at the oxygen absorption bands; ii) the extension of the spectral fitting to a broader spectral window to retrieve the full fluorescence spectrum in the range from 670 to 780 nm. The accuracy of the retrieval algorithms is assessed by employing atmosphere-surface radiative transfer simulations obtained by coupling SCOPE and MODTRAN5 codes. The simulated dataset considers more realistic conditions because it includes directional effects, and the top-of-atmosphere radiance spectra are resampled to the current specifications of the FLuORescence Imaging Spectrometer (FLORIS) planned to serve as the primary instrument aboard FLEX. The retrieval accuracy obtained at the O2-A band is strongly affected by directional effects, and better performance is found in cases where directional effects are lower. However, the best performing algorithms tested provided similar performance, the RMSE (RRMSE) is 0.044 mW m− 2 sr− 1 nm− 1 (6.2%) at the O2-A band, 0.018 mW m− 2 sr− 1 nm− 1 (2.9%) at the O2-B band, and 6.225 mW m− 2 sr− 1 (6.4%) for the spectrally integrated fluorescence emission. The promising results achieved open new perspectives extending fluorescence studies not only in limited absorption bands, but its spectral behavior in relation to different plant species, photosynthetic rates and stress occurrences.
Keywords: Sun-induced fluorescence; FLEX mission; Retrieval algorithm; Spectral fitting methods; Full fluorescence spectrum

Shuo Shang, Jiajun Liu, Kun Zhao, Mingrui Yang, Kai Zheng, Ji-rong Wen, Dimension reduction with meta object-groups for efficient image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 169, 2 December 2015, Pages 50-54, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.08.105.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215006840)
Abstract: Abstract
Bag-of-Word (BoW) has been a prominent form for representing visual content such as image and video in recent years, as a result of its unique capability of characterizing visual content in a picture-level while still preserving part of the object-level information. However, it is also noticed that the dimensionality of BoW is usually as high as a few hundreds or even thousands, posing a serious challenge for any application that requires efficient processing. In this paper we propose a dimension reduction method called Meta object-Group Component (MGC) to tackle this problem. MGC aims at discovering the hidden relations of objects by examining the correlations between dimensions in the BoW features and maximizing the relations of the members in a meta object-group. By exchanging message passing between object-groups, meta object-groups are identified for a dataset. A meta object-group does not only contain visually similar objects, but also includes objects that are likely to co-occur with each other. As the meta object groups are obtained, group-specific dimension reduction is performed to obtain denser representations for efficient retrieval. We evaluate the framework on the NUS-Wide image dataset with approximately 270,000 images represented by BoW features, and demonstrate its advantage over existing method.
Keywords: Dimension reduction; Algorithm; Clustering; Image retrieval

Santosh Kumar Vipparthi, Subrahmanyam Murala, S.K. Nagar, Anil Balaji Gonde, Local Gabor maximum edge position octal patterns for image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 167, 1 November 2015, Pages 336-345, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.04.062.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215005317)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, a new coding scheme, local Gabor maximum edge position octal patterns (LGMEPOP) is proposed for content based image retrieval. The standard local binary pattern (LBP) collects the sign edge (binary code) information between the center pixel and its surrounding neighbors in an image. Further, the concept of LBP is extended to local maximum edge binary pattern (LMEBP) which collects the sign code (binary code) using the magnitude edges. These magnitude edges are collected based on the maximum edges between the center pixel and its surrounding neighbors in an image. In this paper, we propose a new feature descriptor, octal code which is coded based on the maximum edge positions (MEP) on Gabor responses. Specially, each pixel of every Gabor response gains eight edges based on the relationship between the referenced pixel and its neighbors. LGMEPOP utilizes the first three dominant (maximum) edge positions in an octal code generation. Then, these three maximum edge positions are encoded into three-eight octal numbers to produce the LGMEPOP. Further, the LGMEPOP is classified into two categories which are named as sign maximum edge position octal pattern (SMEPOP) and magnitude maximum edge position octal pattern (MMEPOP). The SMEPOP and MMEPOP are coded based on the sign and magnitudes of dominant edges respectively. The performance of the proposed method is tested on two benchmark databases. The results after being investigated show a significant improvement as compared to other existing methods (LBP and LBP variants) in terms of average retrieval precision (ARP) and average retrieval rate (ARR) on Corel-5000 and Corel-10000 databases.
Keywords: Local binary patterns (LBP); Image retrieval; Feature extraction; Octal patterns

Erik A. Schnaser, Marcella E. Elpers, Chelsea N. Koch, Stephen B. Haas, Geoffrey H. Westrich, Timothy M. Wright, Posterior Stabilized Polyethylene Inserts in Total Knee Arthroplasty: A Retrieval Study Comparing Conventional to High-Flexion Designs, The Journal of Arthroplasty, Volume 31, Issue 2, February 2016, Pages 495-500, ISSN 0883-5403, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arth.2015.09.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0883540315008256)
Abstract: AbstractBackground
High-flex (HF) total knee arthroplasties are modified posterior-stabilized (PS) implants designed to accommodate greater flexion.
Methods
We examined differences between HF and PS retrieved tibial inserts with regard to polyethylene surface damage. Twenty HF inserts from each of 3 manufacturers were matched using patient demographics with 20 PS inserts from the same manufacturers. Ranges of motion between matched patients were not different.
Results
Based on subjective damage scores, no differences were detected between HF and PS groups. Differences were found, however, among manufacturers, consistent with design approaches taken for PS and HF implants.
Conclusion
In our series, high flexion did not influence damage, although this was likely influenced by the fact that few HF patients in our study had larger range of motions than their PS counterparts.
Keywords: knee arthroplasty; high flexion; polyethylene damage; posterior stabilized; retrieval analysis

A. Al-Yaari, J.-P. Wigneron, Y. Kerr, N. Rodriguez-Fernandez, P.E. O'Neill, T.J. Jackson, G.J.M. De Lannoy, A. Al Bitar, A. Mialon, P. Richaume, J.P. Walker, A. Mahmoodi, S. Yueh, Evaluating soil moisture retrievals from ESA's SMOS and NASA's SMAP brightness temperature datasets, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 193, May 2017, Pages 257-273, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2017.03.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425717301013)
Abstract: Abstract
Two satellites are currently monitoring surface soil moisture (SM) using L-band observations: SMOS (Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity), a joint ESA (European Space Agency), CNES (Centre national d'études spatiales), and CDTI (the Spanish government agency with responsibility for space) satellite launched on November 2, 2009 and SMAP (Soil Moisture Active Passive), a National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) satellite successfully launched in January 2015. In this study, we used a multilinear regression approach to retrieve SM from SMAP data to create a global dataset of SM, which is consistent with SM data retrieved from SMOS. This was achieved by calibrating coefficients of the regression model using the CATDS (Centre Aval de Traitement des Données) SMOS Level 3 SM and the horizontally and vertically polarized brightness temperatures (TB) at 40° incidence angle, over the 2013–2014 period. Next, this model was applied to SMAP L3 TB data from Apr 2015 to Jul 2016. The retrieved SM from SMAP (referred to here as SMAP_Reg) was compared to: (i) the operational SMAP L3 SM (SMAP_SCA), retrieved using the baseline Single Channel retrieval Algorithm (SCA); and (ii) the operational SMOSL3 SM, derived from the multiangular inversion of the L-MEB model (L-MEB algorithm) (SMOSL3). This inter-comparison was made against in situ soil moisture measurements from &gt; 400 sites spread over the globe, which are used here as a reference soil moisture dataset. The in situ observations were obtained from the International Soil Moisture Network (ISMN; https://ismn.geo.tuwien.ac.at/) in North of America (PBO_H2O, SCAN, SNOTEL, iRON, and USCRN), in Australia (Oznet), Africa (DAHRA), and in Europe (REMEDHUS, SMOSMANIA, FMI, and RSMN). The agreement was analyzed in terms of four classical statistical criteria: Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE), Bias, Unbiased RMSE (UnbRMSE), and correlation coefficient (R). Results of the comparison of these various products with in situ observations show that the performance of both SMAP products i.e. SMAP_SCA and SMAP_Reg is similar and marginally better to that of the SMOSL3 product particularly over the PBO_H2O, SCAN, and USCRN sites. However, SMOSL3 SM was closer to the in situ observations over the DAHRA and Oznet sites. We found that the correlation between all three datasets and in situ measurements is best (R &gt; 0.80) over the Oznet sites and worst (R = 0.58) over the SNOTEL sites for SMAP_SCA and over the DAHRA and SMOSMANIA sites (R = 0.51 and R = 0.45 for SMAP_Reg and SMOSL3, respectively). The Bias values showed that all products are generally dry, except over RSMN, DAHRA, and Oznet (and FMI for SMAP_SCA). Finally, our analysis provided interesting insights that can be useful to improve the consistency between SMAP and SMOS datasets.
Keywords: SMOS; SMAP; Soil moisture; Statistical regression

P. Shanmugavadivu, P. Sumathy, A. Vadivel, FOSIR: Fuzzy-Object-Shape for Image Retrieval applications, Neurocomputing, Volume 171, 1 January 2016, Pages 719-735, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.07.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215009911)
Abstract: Abstract
The object present in an image is an important content and can be used in CBIR applications. Identifying and representing the shape of the object is indeed complex due to the uncertainties in the boundary of the object of interest. In this paper, we have proposed Fuzzy-Object-Shape to capture the shape of the object of interest along with the degree of impreciseness in the boundary information. The Fuzzy-Object-Shape information is extracted from each object in an image. This information provides a measure of closeness of the object of interest with well-known shapes. For each object, the fuzzy membership values are calculated and considered as feature vector. A similarity measure is proposed for measuring the degree of closeness of objects present in both query and database images. The performance of the proposed approach is compared with some of the recently proposed similar approaches. Benchmark dataset and uncontrolled dataset are used for the experiments and the performance of the proposed approach is encouraging.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Fuzzy-shape; Geometric features; Approximate shapes

Liansheng Sui, Benqing Liu, Qiang Wang, Ye Li, Junli Liang, Color image encryption by using Yang-Gu mixture amplitude-phase retrieval algorithm in gyrator transform domain and two-dimensional Sine logistic modulation map, Optics and Lasers in Engineering, Volume 75, December 2015, Pages 17-26, ISSN 0143-8166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optlaseng.2015.06.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0143816615001396)
Abstract: Abstract
A color image encryption scheme is proposed based on Yang-Gu mixture amplitude-phase retrieval algorithm and two-coupled logistic map in gyrator transform domain. First, the color plaintext image is decomposed into red, green and blue components, which are scrambled individually by three random sequences generated by using the two-dimensional Sine logistic modulation map. Second, each scrambled component is encrypted into a real-valued function with stationary white noise distribution in the iterative amplitude-phase retrieval process in the gyrator transform domain, and then three obtained functions are considered as red, green and blue channels to form the color ciphertext image. Obviously, the ciphertext image is real-valued function and more convenient for storing and transmitting. In the encryption and decryption processes, the chaotic random phase mask generated based on logistic map is employed as the phase key, which means that only the initial values are used as private key and the cryptosystem has high convenience on key management. Meanwhile, the security of the cryptosystem is enhanced greatly because of high sensitivity of the private keys. Simulation results are presented to prove the security and robustness of the proposed scheme.
Keywords: Color image encryption; Two-dimensional Sine logistic modulation map; Yang-Gu mixture amplitude-phase retrieval algorithm

Anan Liu, Zhongyang Wang, Weizhi Nie, Yuting Su, Graph-based characteristic view set extraction and matching for 3D model retrieval, Information Sciences, Volume 320, 1 November 2015, Pages 429-442, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2015.04.042.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025515003242)
Abstract: Abstract
In recent times, multi-view representation of the 3D model has led to extensive research in view-based methods for 3D model retrieval. However, most approaches focus on feature extraction from 2D images while ignoring the spatial information of the 3D model. In order to improve the effectiveness of view-based methods on 3D model retrieval, this paper proposes a novel method for characteristic view extraction and similarity measurement. First, the graph clustering method is used for view grouping and the random-walk algorithm is applied to adaptively update the weight of each view. The spatial information of the 3D object is utilized to construct a view-graph model, thus enabling each characteristic view to represent the discriminative visual feature in terms of specific spatial context. Next, by considering the view set as a graph model, the similarity measurement of two models can be converted into a graph matching problem. This problem is solved by mathematically formulating it as a Rayleigh quotient maximization with affinity constraints for similarity measurement. Extensive comparison experiments were conducted on the popular ETH, NTU, PSB, and MV-RED 3D model datasets. The results demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method.
Keywords: 3D model retrieval; Characteristic view; Graph clustering; Graph matching; Rayleigh quotient maximization

Eun-Kyung Lee, Susan M. Garnsey, An ERP study of plural attraction in attachment ambiguity resolution: Evidence for retrieval interference, Journal of Neurolinguistics, Volume 36, November 2015, Pages 1-16, ISSN 0911-6044, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jneuroling.2015.04.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0911604415000214)
Abstract: Abstract
The memory retrieval processes involved in subject–verb agreement processing in sentence comprehension were examined by recording event-related brain potentials (ERPs) while people read temporarily ambiguous relative clause structures such as The reporter shocked the advisor(s) of the politician(s) who was/were at the meeting. When the relative clause verb was singular, forcing attachment to whichever of the nouns was also singular, the presence of a nearby plural attractor noun created greater interference in the process of retrieving the verb's subject from the memory representation of the sentence so far, revealed by an increased frontal negativity when the attractor noun was plural compared to when it was singular. Crucially, attraction effects did not interact with attachment type. The data suggest that plural attraction effects may arise from retrieval interference in grammatical sentences. The data also suggest that interference from plural attractor nouns in agreement processing is just another instance of the retrieval interference effects that arise whenever it becomes necessary to search the memory representation of a sentence so far to form dependency relationships among the words in the sentence.
Keywords: Attachment ambiguity; Agreement; Retrieval interference; Comprehension; ERPs

Dilek Küçük, Adnan Yazıcı, A semi-automatic text-based semantic video annotation system for Turkish facilitating multilingual retrieval, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 40, Issue 9, July 2013, Pages 3398-3411, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2012.12.048.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417412012894)
Abstract: It is commonly acknowledged that ever-increasing video archives should be conveniently indexed with the conveyed semantic information to facilitate later video retrieval. Domain-independent semantic video indexing is usually carried out through manual means which is too time-consuming and labor-intensive to be employed in practical settings. On the other hand, fully automated approaches are usually proposed for very specialized domains such as team sports videos. In this paper, we propose a generic text-based semi-automatic system for off-line semantic indexing and retrieval of news videos, since video texts such as speech transcripts stand as a plausible source of semantic information. The proposed system has a pipelined flow of execution where the sole manual intervention takes place during text extraction, yet it could execute in fully automated mode in case the associated video text is already available or a convenient text extractor is available to be incorporated into the system. At the core of the system is an information extraction component – a named entity recognizer – which extracts representative semantic information from the video texts. Based on the proposed generic system, a novel semantic annotation and retrieval system for Turkish is designed, implemented, and evaluated on two distinct news video data sets. By equipping it with the necessary components, the ultimate system is also turned into a multilingual video retrieval system and executed on a video data set in English, thereby facilitating multilingual semantic video retrieval.
Keywords: Semantic video indexing; Video retrieval; Multilingual video retrieval; Information extraction; Named entity recognition

Manisha Verma, Balasubramanian Raman, Center symmetric local binary co-occurrence pattern for texture, face and bio-medical image retrieval, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 32, October 2015, Pages 224-236, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2015.08.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320315001583)
Abstract: Abstract
Content based image retrieval is a common problem for a large image database. Many methods have been proposed for image retrieval for some particular type of datasets. In the proposed work, a new image retrieval technique has been introduced. This technique is useful for different kind of dataset. In the proposed method, center symmetric local binary pattern has been extracted from the original image to obtain the local information. Co-occurrence of pixel pairs in local pattern map have been observed in different directions and distances using gray level co-occurrence matrix. Earlier methods have utilized histogram to extract the frequency information of local pattern map but co-occurrence of pixel pairs is more robust than frequency of patterns. The proposed method is tested on three different category of images, i.e., texture, face and medical image database and compared with typical state-of-the-art local patterns.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval; Local binary pattern; Center symmetric local binary pattern; Gray level co-occurrence matrix; Feature vector; Texture feature; MIT VisTex texture database; Brodatz texture database; ORL face database; OASIS MRI image database

W.U. Mirihanage, K.V. Falch, I. Snigireva, A. Snigirev, Y.J. Li, L. Arnberg, R.H. Mathiesen, Retrieval of three-dimensional spatial information from fast in situ two-dimensional synchrotron radiography of solidification microstructure evolution, Acta Materialia, Volume 81, December 2014, Pages 241-247, ISSN 1359-6454, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2014.08.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S135964541400617X)
Abstract: Abstract
In situ synchrotron X-ray radiography of columnar dendritic growth in Al–15 wt.% Cu–9 wt.% Si–0.015 wt.% Sr alloy has been carried out with the temporal and spatial resolutions of 100 ms and 0.65 μm, respectively. Two-dimensional (2-D) projected images have been processed and analysed to retrieve three-dimensional (3-D) spatial information on the growing dendrite network, through X-ray transmission contrast differences that account for solute-composition variations in the liquid and thickness variations in the growing dendrites. The analysis elucidates the way in which gravity-driven natural convection and solute sedimentation can result in solid fractions that deviate markedly from Scheil and Lever-rule-based models, which could alter mushy zone permeability. Furthermore, the ability to render 3-D spatial details may lead to future opportunities to use 2-D radiography in the development and validation of more sophisticated 3-D models of dendritic growth.
Keywords: Solidification; In-situ radiography; Synchrotron radiation

M. Srinivas, R. Ramu Naidu, C.S. Sastry, C. Krishna Mohan, Content based medical image retrieval using dictionary learning, Neurocomputing, Volume 168, 30 November 2015, Pages 880-895, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.05.036.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215006967)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, a clustering method using dictionary learning is proposed to group large medical databases. An approach grouping similar images into clusters that are sparsely represented by the dictionaries and learning dictionaries simultaneously via K-SVD is proposed. A query image is matched with the existing dictionaries to identify the dictionary with the sparsest representation using an Orthogonal Matching Pursuit (OMP) algorithm. Then images in the cluster associated with this dictionary are compared using a similarity measure to retrieve images similar to the query image. The main features of the method are that it requires no training data and works well on the medical databases which are not restricted to specific context. The performance of the proposed method is examined on IRMA test image database. The experimental results demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed method in the retrieval of medical images.
Keywords: Clustering; Content based image retrieval; Dictionary learning; Rotation invariance; Sparse representation; K-SVD; OMP

Song Bai, Xiang Bai, Wenyu Liu, Fabio Roli, Neural shape codes for 3D model retrieval, Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 65, 1 November 2015, Pages 15-21, ISSN 0167-8655, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2015.06.022.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167865515001944)
Abstract: Abstract
The paradigm of Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) has already shown its potential for many challenging applications of computer vision, such as image classification, object detection and action recognition. In this paper, the task of 3D model retrieval is addressed by exploiting such promising paradigm. However, 3D models are usually represented with a collection of orderless points, lines and surfaces in a three dimensional space, which makes it difficult to involve the operation of convolution, pooling, etc. Yet, we propose a practical and effective way for applying CNN to 3D model retrieval, by training the network with the depth projections of 3D model. This CNN is regarded as a generic feature extractor for depth image. With large amounts of training data, the learned feature, which is called Neural Shape Codes, can handle various deformation changes that exist in shape analysis. The reported experimental results on several 3D shape benchmark datasets show the superior performance of the proposed method.
Keywords: Shape retrieval; 3D model; Depth view; CNN

Ziqiong Liu, Shengjin Wang, Qi Tian, Fine-residual VLAD for image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 173, Part 3, 15 January 2016, Pages 1183-1191, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.08.076.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215012965)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper revisits the vector of locally aggregated descriptors (VLAD), which aggregates the residuals of local descriptors to their cluster centers. Since VLAD usually adopts a small-size codebook, the clusters are coarse and residuals not discriminative. To address this problem, this paper proposes to generate a number of residual codebooks descended from the original clusters. After quantizing local descriptors with these codebooks, we pool the resulting secondary residuals as well as the primary ones to obtain the fine residuals. We show that, with two-step aggregation, the fine-residual VLAD has the same dimension as the original. Experiments on two image search benchmarks confirm the improved discriminative power of our method: we observe consistent superiority to the baseline and competitive performance to the state-of-the-arts.
Keywords: VLAD; Image retrieval; Residual codebook; Fine residual

Gholam Ali Montazer, Davar Giveki, An improved radial basis function neural network for object image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 168, 30 November 2015, Pages 221-233, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.05.104.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215008024)
Abstract: Abstract
Radial Basis Function Neural Networks (RBFNNs) have been widely used for classification and function approximation tasks. Hence, it is worthy to try improving and developing new learning algorithms for RBFNNs in order to get better results. This paper presents a new learning method for RBFNNs. An improved algorithm for center adjustment of RBFNNs and a novel algorithm for width determination have been proposed to optimize the efficiency of the Optimum Steepest Decent (OSD) algorithm. To initialize the radial basis function units more accurately, a modified approach based on Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) is presented. The obtained results show fast convergence speed, better and same network response in fewer train data which states the generalization power of the improved neural network. The Improved PSO–OSD and Three-phased PSO–OSD algorithms have been tested on five benchmark problems and the results have been compared. Finally, using the improved radial basis function neural network we propose a new method for object image retrieval. The images to be retrieved are object images that can be divided into foreground and background. Experimental results show that the proposed method is really promising and achieves high performance.
Keywords: Radial basis function neural networks (RBFNNs); Improved Particle Swarm Optimization; Optimum Steepest Descent (OSD); Object Image Retrieval

Richard Bache, Mark Ballie, Fabio Crestani, The likelihood property in general retrieval operations, Information Sciences, Volume 234, 10 June 2013, Pages 97-111, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2013.01.030.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025513001096)
Abstract: Probabilistic models of information retrieval rank objects (e.g. documents) in response to a query according to the probability of some matching criterion (e.g. relevance). These models rarely yield an actual probability and their scoring functions are interpreted to be purely ordinal within a given retrieval task. In this paper we show that some scoring functions possess a likelihood property, which means that the scoring function indicates the likelihood of matching when compared to other retrieval tasks. This is potentially more useful than pure ranking even though it cannot be interpreted as an actual probability. This property can be detected by using two modified effectiveness measures, entire precision and entire recall. Experimental evidence is offered to show the existence of this property both for traditional document retrieval and for the analysis of crime data where suspects of an unsolved crime are ranked according to the probability of culpability.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Probabilistic model; Scoring function; Ranking function

Jochem Verrelst, Gustau Camps-Valls, Jordi Muñoz-Marí, Juan Pablo Rivera, Frank Veroustraete, Jan G.P.W. Clevers, José Moreno, Optical remote sensing and the retrieval of terrestrial vegetation bio-geophysical properties – A review, ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, Volume 108, October 2015, Pages 273-290, ISSN 0924-2716, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2015.05.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924271615001422)
Abstract: Abstract
Forthcoming superspectral satellite missions dedicated to land monitoring, as well as planned imaging spectrometers, will unleash an unprecedented data stream. The processing requirements for such large data streams involve processing techniques enabling the spatio-temporally explicit quantification of vegetation properties. Typically retrieval must be accurate, robust and fast. Hence, there is a strict requirement to identify next-generation bio-geophysical variable retrieval algorithms which can be molded into an operational processing chain. This paper offers a review of state-of-the-art retrieval methods for quantitative terrestrial bio-geophysical variable extraction using optical remote sensing imagery. We can categorize these methods into (1) parametric regression, (2) non-parametric regression, (3) physically-based and (4) hybrid methods. Hybrid methods combine generic capabilities of physically-based methods with flexible and computationally efficient methods, typically non-parametric regression methods. A review of the theoretical basis of all these methods is given first and followed by published applications. This paper focusses on: (1) retrievability of bio-geophysical variables, (2) ability to generate multiple outputs, (3) possibilities for model transparency description, (4) mapping speed, and (5) possibilities for uncertainty retrieval. Finally, the prospects of implementing these methods into future processing chains for operational retrieval of vegetation properties are presented and discussed.
Keywords: Bio-geophysical variables; Parametric; Non-parametric; Physical; Hybrid; Machine learning; Operational variable retrieval

Menglin Liu, Li Yang, Yanmei Liang, A chroma texture-based method in color image retrieval, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 126, Issue 20, October 2015, Pages 2629-2633, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2015.06.058.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402615005306)
Abstract: Abstract
Texture is an important feature generally used in the content-based image retrieval (CBIR). Traditional methods of calculating texture features ignore the texture features caused by chroma differences. A new method of calculating chroma texture features is proposed in this paper. Large numbers of experiments were performed and proved that the chroma texture feature was a very important complement to the traditional luminance texture. The effectiveness of the image retrieval is improved significantly by combination of luminance texture and chroma texture with a lower-dimensional vector. The average ranking ratio is improved by 14.57%, and there is an obvious improvement of the average recall-precision curve.
Keywords: Color image retrieval; Chroma texture; Ranking ratio; Recall-precision curve

Brett P. Wiater, Erin A. Baker, Meagan R. Salisbury, Denise M. Koueiter, Kevin C. Baker, Betsy M. Nolan, J. Michael Wiater, Elucidating trends in revision reverse total shoulder arthroplasty procedures: a retrieval study evaluating clinical, radiographic, and functional outcomes data, Journal of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery, Volume 24, Issue 12, December 2015, Pages 1915-1925, ISSN 1058-2746, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jse.2015.06.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1058274615003079)
Abstract: Background
The purpose of this study was to explore relationships between damage modes in explanted reverse total shoulder arthroplasty (RTSA) components, patient and radiographic risk factors, and functional data to elucidate trends in RTSA failure.
Methods
Fifty RTSA systems, retrieved from 44 patients, with 50 polyethylene (PE) liners, 30 glenospheres, 21 glenoid baseplates, 13 modular humeral metaphases, and 17 humeral stems, were examined for damage modes, including abrasion, burnishing, dishing, embedding, scratching, and pitting. PE liners were also analyzed for delamination and edge deformation. Charts were reviewed for patient, surgical, and functional data. Pre-revision radiographs were analyzed for scapular notching and loosening.
Results
Average term of implantation was 20 months (range, 0-81 months). Metallic components exhibited abrasion, burnishing, dishing, pitting, and scratching. PE liners displayed all damage modes. Damage was exhibited on 93% of glenospheres and 100% of PE liners. Of 29 aseptic shoulders, 13 showed evidence of scapular notching and 5 of humeral loosening. There was a moderate correlation between radiographically observed implant failure or dissociation and PE embedding (r = 0.496; P &lt; .001). There were weak and moderate correlations between scapular notching severity and PE dishing (r = 0.496; P = .006), embedding (r = 0.468; P = .010), and delamination (r = 0.384; P = .040).
Conclusions
To date, this is the largest series of retrieved RTSA components and the first to relate damage modes to radiographic and clinical data. Most damage was observed on the PE liners, on both the articular surface and rim, and glenosphere components. Correlation of retrieval findings with radiographic and clinical data may help establish predictors of prostheses at risk for failure.
Keywords: Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty; implant retrieval; implant damage; scapular notching

María Victoria Nuño Moral, Sistemas de acceso y consulta en los diarios digitales españoles, Investigación Bibliotecológica: Archivonomía, Bibliotecología e Información, Volume 28, Issue 62, January–April 2014, Pages 81-99, ISSN 0187-358X, https://doi.org/10.1016/S0187-358X(14)72567-5.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0187358X14725675)
Abstract: Resumen
Se realiza el análisis descriptivo de las formas de acceso y sistemas de consulta con que cuenta el usuario en los diarios digitales españoles desde una doble perspectiva: por un lado señalar cuáles son las formas de acceso y la tipología documental o formatos que alberga cada uno de los sitios web analizados y, por el otro, exponer las características que presentan los respectivos sistemas de búsqueda. Para su realización se ha tomado como referencia la propuesta realizada por Guallar y Abadal (2009) y se ha elaborado una plantilla de trabajo basada en la evaluación descriptiva y comparativa de la muestra seleccionada.
Abstract
Researchers offer a descriptive analysis of search tools access paths available to readers of Spanish online newspapers. A twin approach is used: the first examines website in terms of access tool, their typology and the format; while the second approach provides a description of web search systems. The proposal put forth by Guallar and Abadal (2009) serves as a methodological framework of a working template for making descriptive and comparative evaluations of the sample under study.
Palabras clave: Sistemas de recuperación; Periódicos digitales; Recursos multimedia; Archivos digitales; Information retrieval systems; Digital newspapers; Multimedia resources; Digital files

Xueyan Dong, Michael Towsey, Anthony Truskinger, Mark Cottman-Fields, Jinglan Zhang, Paul Roe, Similarity-based birdcall retrieval from environmental audio, Ecological Informatics, Volume 29, Part 1, September 2015, Pages 66-76, ISSN 1574-9541, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecoinf.2015.07.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574954115001168)
Abstract: Abstract
Automated digital recordings are useful for large-scale temporal and spatial environmental monitoring. An important research effort has been the automated classification of calling bird species. In this paper we examine a related task, retrieval of birdcalls from a database of audio recordings, similar to a user supplied query call. Such a retrieval task can sometimes be more useful than an automated classifier. We compare three approaches to similarity-based birdcall retrieval using spectral ridge features and two kinds of gradient features, structure tensor and the histogram of oriented gradients. The retrieval accuracy of our spectral ridge method is 94% compared to 82% for the structure tensor method and 90% for the histogram of gradients method. Additionally, this approach potentially offers a more compact representation and is more computationally efficient.
Keywords: Birdcall retrieval; Environmental audio; Ridge detection; Spectral peak tracks

Lin Feng, Jun Wu, Shenglan Liu, Hongwei Zhang, Global Correlation Descriptor: A novel image representation for image retrieval, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 33, November 2015, Pages 104-114, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2015.09.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320315001637)
Abstract: Abstract
The image descriptors based on multi-features fusion have better performance than that based on simple feature in content-based image retrieval (CBIR). However, these methods still have some limitations: (1) the methods that define directly texture in color space put more emphasis on color than texture feature; (2) traditional descriptors based on histogram statistics disregard the spatial correlation between structure elements; (3) the descriptors based on structure element correlation (SEC) disregard the occurring probability of structure elements. To solve these problems, we propose a novel image descriptor, called Global Correlation Descriptor (GCD), to extract color and texture feature respectively so that these features have the same effect in CBIR. In addition, we propose Global Correlation Vector (GCV) and Directional Global Correlation Vector (DGCV) which can integrate the advantages of histogram statistics and SEC to characterize color and texture features respectively. Experimental results demonstrate that GCD is more robust and discriminative than other image descriptors in CBIR.
Keywords: Image retrieval; HSV color space; Texton detection; Global Correlation Descriptor (GCD); Global Correlation Vector (GCV); Global Correlation Vector (DGCV); Feature fusion; Structure element correlation (SEC)

Saliha Bouagar, Slimane Larabi, Discriminative outlines parts for shape retrieval, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 33, November 2015, Pages 149-164, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2015.08.019.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320315001790)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper we propose a new method for shape retrieval using only discriminative parts which are sufficient for the recognition of many objects and their classes. The discriminative outline shape is firstly determined by performing psycho-visual tests and then described with geometric attributes of high curvature points located along the outline. This obtained description is invariant to scale change, rotation, mirroring and deformation. To study the performance of our approach, global approach which deals with the whole contour and partial approach which is based on the discriminative part are compared. Experiments conducted on our data set and a selection of MPEG-7 dataset demonstrated the usefulness of this approach and the results obtained are presented and discussed.
Keywords: Discriminative; Part; Matching; Partial; Shape; Retrieval; Outline; descriptor

Giorgos Tolias, Andrei Bursuc, Teddy Furon, Hervé Jégou, Rotation and translation covariant match kernels for image retrieval, Computer Vision and Image Understanding, Volume 140, November 2015, Pages 9-20, ISSN 1077-3142, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cviu.2015.06.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1077314215001356)
Abstract: Abstract
Most image encodings achieve orientation invariance by aligning the patches to their dominant orientations and translation invariance by completely ignoring patch position or by max-pooling. Albeit successful, such choices introduce too much invariance because they do not guarantee that the patches are rotated or translated consistently. In this paper, we propose a geometric-aware aggregation strategy, which jointly encodes the local descriptors together with their patch dominant angle or location. The geometric attributes are encoded in a continuous manner by leveraging explicit feature maps. Our technique is compatible with generic match kernel formulation and can be employed along with several popular encoding methods, in particular Bag-of-Words, VLAD and the Fisher vector. The method is further combined with an efficient monomial embedding to provide a codebook-free method aggregating local descriptors into a single vector representation. Invariance is achieved by efficient similarity estimation of multiple rotations or translations, offered by a simple trigonometric polynomial. This strategy is effective for image search, as shown by experiments performed on standard benchmarks for image and particular object retrieval, namely Holidays and Oxford buildings.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Geometry aware aggregation; Match kernels; Monomial embedding

Meng Jian, Cheolkon Jung, Yanbo Shen, Juan Liu, Interactive image retrieval using constraints, Neurocomputing, Volume 161, 5 August 2015, Pages 210-219, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.02.040.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215001897)
Abstract: Abstract
The proper use of constraints improves the data clustering performance. In this paper, we propose a novel interactive image retrieval framework using constraints. First, we extract the user׳s region of interest (ROI) from queries by simple user interaction using adaptive constraints-based seed propagation (ACSP), and obtain initial retrieval results based on the ROI. Then, we improve the retrieval results by active learning from the user׳s relevance feedback using ACSP. Since ACSP is very effective in propagating the user׳s interactive information of constraints by employing a kernel learning strategy, it successfully learns the correlation between low-level image features and high-level semantics from the ROI and relevance feedbacks. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed framework remarkably improves the image retrieval performance by ACSP-based constraint propagation in terms of both effectiveness and efficiency.
Keywords: Active learning; Adaptive constraint propagation; Interactive image retrieval; Pairwise constraints; Relevance feedback; Seed propagation

Serdar Arslan, Adnan Yazıcı, Ahmet Saçan, Ismail H. Toroslu, Esra Acar, Comparison of feature-based and image registration-based retrieval of image data using multidimensional data access methods, Data & Knowledge Engineering, Volume 86, July 2013, Pages 124-145, ISSN 0169-023X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2013.01.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X13000189)
Abstract: Abstract
In information retrieval, efficient similarity search in multimedia collections is a critical task. In this paper, we present a rigorous comparison of three different approaches to the image retrieval problem, including cluster-based indexing, distance-based indexing, and multidimensional scaling methods. The time and accuracy trade-offs for each of these methods are demonstrated on three different image data sets. Similarity of images is obtained either by a feature-based similarity measure using four MPEG-7 low-level descriptors or by a whole image-based similarity measure. The effect of these similarity measurement techniques on the retrieval process is also evaluated through the performance tests performed on several data sets. We show that using low-level features of images in the similarity measurement function results in significantly better accuracy and time performance compared to the whole-image based approach. Moreover, an optimization of feature contributions to the distance measure for feature-based approach can identify the most relevant features and is necessary to obtain maximum accuracy. We further show that multidimensional scaling can achieve comparable accuracy, while speeding-up the query times significantly by allowing the use of spatial access methods.
Keywords: Access methods; Information retrieval; Filtering; Classification; Summarization and visualization; Indexing methods; Content-based image retrieval; Landmark-based multidimensional scaling; OWA; Multimedia indexing; BitMatrix; SlimTree

Heng Lyu, Xiaojun Li, Yannan Wang, Qi Jin, Kai Cao, Qiao Wang, Yunmei Li, Evaluation of chlorophyll-a retrieval algorithms based on MERIS bands for optically varying eutrophic inland lakes, Science of The Total Environment, Volumes 530–531, 15 October 2015, Pages 373-382, ISSN 0048-9697, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2015.05.115.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S004896971530173X)
Abstract: Abstract
Fourteen field campaigns were conducted in five inland lakes during different seasons between 2006 and 2013, and a total of 398 water samples with varying optical characteristics were collected. The characteristics were analyzed based on remote sensing reflectance, and an automatic cluster two-step method was applied for water classification. The inland waters could be clustered into three types, which we labeled water types I, II and III. From water types I to III, the effect of the phytoplankton on the optical characteristics gradually decreased. Four chlorophyll-a retrieval algorithms for Case II water, a two-band, three-band, four-band and SCI (Synthetic Chlorophyll Index) algorithm were evaluated for three water types based on the MERIS bands. Different MERIS bands were used for the three water types in each of the four algorithms. The four algorithms had different levels of retrieval accuracy for each water type, and no single algorithm could be successfully applied to all water types. For water types I and III, the three-band algorithm performed the best, while the four-band algorithm had the highest retrieval accuracy for water type II. However, the three-band algorithm is preferable to the two-band algorithm for turbid eutrophic inland waters. The SCI algorithm is recommended for highly turbid water with a higher concentration of total suspended solids. Our research indicates that the chlorophyll-a concentration retrieval by remote sensing for optically contrasted inland water requires a specific algorithm that is based on the optical characteristics of inland water bodies to obtain higher estimation accuracy.
Keywords: Chlorophyll-a concentration; Retrieval algorithms; MERIS bands; Optical clustering; Accuracy evaluation

Liansheng Sui, Benqing Liu, Qiang Wang, Ye Li, Junli Liang, Double-image encryption based on Yang-Gu mixture amplitude-phase retrieval algorithm and high dimension chaotic system in gyrator domain, Optics Communications, Volume 354, 1 November 2015, Pages 184-196, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2015.05.071.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401815004460)
Abstract: Abstract
A double-image encryption scheme is proposed based on Yang-Gu mixture amplitude-phase retrieval algorithm and high dimension chaotic system in gyrator transform domain, in which three chaotic random sequences are generated by using Chen system. First, an enlarged image constituted with two plaintext images is scrambled by using the first two sequences, and then separated into two new interim images. Second, one interim image is converted to the private phase key with the help of the third sequence, which is modulated by a random phase key generated based on logistic map. Based on this private phase key, another interim image is converted to the ciphertext with white noise distribution in the Yang-Gu amplitude-phase retrieval process. In the process of encryption and decryption, the images both in spatial domain and gyrator domain are nonlinear and disorder by using high dimension chaotic system. Moreover, the ciphertext image is only a real-valued function which is more convenient for storing and transmitting, and the security of the proposed encryption scheme is enhanced greatly because of high sensitivity of initial values of Chen system and rotation angle of gyrator transform. Extensive cryptanalysis and simulation results have demonstrated the security, validity and feasibility of the propose encryption scheme.
Keywords: Double-image encryption; High dimension chaotic system; Yang-Gu mixture amplitude-phase retrieval algorithm

Yanfen Li, Chunmin Zhang, Dongdong Liu, Jie Chen, Piao Rong, Comparison between the ESFT and LBL simulation with enhanced SCIATRAN of orbital CO2 retrieval for High-resolution Satellite, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 127, Issue 2, January 2016, Pages 628-633, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2015.10.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402615013716)
Abstract: Abstract
The enhanced radiative transfer model SCIATRAN completes the simulation from the single point to the orbital data. There are 69 points locating at a global scale. The ESFT and LBL modes are implemented in the enhanced SCIATRAN for Medium-resolution Satellite (SCIAMACHY) and High-resolution Satellite simulations. A comparison of their spectra, accuracy and speed has been undertaken. For SCIAMACHY, the relative errors of O2 A-band (755–775 nm) and WCO2 band (1560–1680 nm) for ESFT and LBL (same sampling) are far less than 1%. The speed of ESFT mode is about 1.17 times faster than LBL mode for O2 A-band, about 5.24 times faster for WCO2 band. For High-resolution Satellite, the relative errors of O2 A-band and CO2 bands for ESFT and LBL are much less than 1%, and the speed increases to about 1.09 times for O2 A-band (759–769 nm) than LBL mode, about 3.83 times for WCO2 band (1568–1583 nm) than LBL mode. But the speed of LBL mode increases to about 47.55 times for SCO2 band (2043–2058 nm) than ESFT mode. This study provides a theoretical guide for the subsequent inversion of CO2 column concentration for High-resolution Satellite.
Keywords: Medium-resolution Satellite; High-resolution Satellite; LBL; ESFT; orbital CO2 retrieval

Tanvir Islam, Prashant K. Srivastava, Synergistic multi-sensor and multi-frequency retrieval of cloud ice water path constrained by CloudSat collocations, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 161, August 2015, Pages 21-34, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2015.03.022.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407315001247)
Abstract: Abstract
The cloud ice water path (IWP) is one of the major parameters that have a strong influence on earth׳s radiation budget. Onboard satellite sensors are recognized as valuable tools to measure the IWP in a global scale. Albeit, active sensors such as the Cloud Profiling Radar (CPR) onboard the CloudSat satellite has better capability to measure the ice water content profile, thus, its vertical integral, IWP, than any passive microwave (MW) or infrared (IR) sensors. In this study, we investigate the retrieval of IWP from MW and IR sensors, including AMSU-A, MHS, and HIRS instruments on-board the N19 satellite, such that the retrieval is consistent with the CloudSat IWP estimates. This is achieved through the collocations between the passive satellite measurements and CloudSat scenes. Potential benefit of synergistic multi-sensor multi-frequency retrieval is investigated. Two modeling approaches are explored for the IWP retrieval – generalized linear model (GLM) and neural network (NN). The investigation has been carried out over both ocean and land surface types. The MW/IR synergy is found to be retrieved more accurate IWP than the individual AMSU-A, MHS, or HIRS measurements. Both GLM and NN approaches have been able to exploit the synergistic retrievals.
Keywords: Satellite cloud retrieval; Passive microwave radiometry; Infrared and optical; Measurements synergy; Cloud profiling radar (CPR); Global precipitation measurement (GPM)

Liujuan Cao, Fanglin Wang, Robust latent semantic exploration for image retrieval in social media, Neurocomputing, Volume 169, 2 December 2015, Pages 180-184, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.02.082.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215006682)
Abstract: Abstract
With the speedy development of social media, more and more multimedia data are generated by users with tags associated. The tag information provides the extra cue to link multimedia data in addition to the multimedia content itself. However, the manually added tags are always with noise and not correct enough. Moreover, the semantically similar tags exist massively but cannot be accounted for well. This paper proposes a new algorithm to robustly combine multimedia content and associated tags by mining the latent semantic which takes into account the semantically similar tags. The l 2 , 1 norm is proposed to employ in latent semantic indexing for a more robust latent space, and a word-to-vector based clustering method is proposed to address the massive tags with similar meaning. The experiments on extensive data demonstrate the proposed method. Compared to the existing latent semantic based methods, the algorithm proposed a more robust model to deal with noise.
Keywords: Image retrieval; l 2 , 1 norm; Word-to-vector

Michael G. Brown, Chuntao Lu, Green’s function retrieval in a field of random water waves, Wave Motion, Volume 60, January 2016, Pages 8-19, ISSN 0165-2125, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wavemoti.2015.08.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165212515001171)
Abstract: Abstract
It has recently been demonstrated using a variety of wave types that cross-correlating time series of apparently random waves measured at two locations yields an estimate of the Green’s function that describes the wave field generated at one of those locations and measured at the other. This procedure can be described as random wave interferometry. In this paper random surface gravity wave interferometry is described theoretically, demonstrated using numerical simulations, and investigated experimentally using both wavetank measurements and ocean wave measurements. Simulations and wavetank measurements are in good agreement with theoretical predictions, but the ocean-measurement-based cross correlations do not yield the predicted structure. Possible explanations are discussed.
Keywords: Green’s function retrieval; Random wave interferometry; Random wave field cross-correlations; Water waves

Magdalena Abel, Karl-Heinz T. Bäuml, Selective memory retrieval in social groups: When silence is golden and when it is not, Cognition, Volume 140, July 2015, Pages 40-48, ISSN 0010-0277, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cognition.2015.03.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010027715000591)
Abstract: Abstract
Previous research has shown that the selective remembering of a speaker and the resulting silences can cause forgetting of related, but unmentioned information by a listener (Cuc, Koppel, &amp; Hirst, 2007). Guided by more recent work that demonstrated both detrimental and beneficial effects of selective memory retrieval in individuals, the present research explored the effects of selective remembering in social groups when access to the encoding context at retrieval was maintained or impaired. In each of three experiments, selective retrieval by the speaker impaired recall of the listener when access to the encoding context was maintained, but it improved recall of the listener when context access was impaired. The results suggest the existence of two faces of selective memory retrieval in social groups, with a detrimental face when the encoding context is still active at retrieval and a beneficial face when it is not. The role of silence in social recall thus seems to be more complex than was indicated in prior work, and mnemonic silences on the part of a speaker can be “golden” for the memories of a listener under some circumstances, but not be “golden” under others.
Keywords: Episodic memory; Retrieval; Social recall; Forgetting; Context reactivation

Mritha Ramalingam, Nor Ashidi Mat Isa, Fast retrieval of hidden data using enhanced hidden Markov model in video steganography, Applied Soft Computing, Volume 34, September 2015, Pages 744-757, ISSN 1568-4946, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2015.05.040.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494615003567)
Abstract: Abstract
In the digital world, secure data communication has an important role in mass media and Internet technology. With the increase in modern malicious technologies, confidential data are exposed at a greater risk during data communication. For secured communication, recent technologies and the Internet have introduced steganography, a new way to hide data. Steganography is the growing practice of concealing data in multimedia files for secure data transfer. Nowadays, videos are more commonly chosen as cover media than other multimedia files because of the moving sequence of images and audio files. Despite its popularity, video steganography faces a significant challenge, which is a lack of a fast retrieval system of the hidden data. This study proposes a novel video steganography technique in which an enhanced hidden Markov model (EHMM) is employed to improve the speed of retrieving hidden data. EHMM mathematical formulations are used to enhance the speed of embedding and extracting secret data. The data embedding and retrieving operations were performed using the conditional states and the state transition dynamics between the video frames. The proposed EHMM is extensively evaluated using three benchmark functions, and experimental evaluations are conducted to test the speed of data retrieval using differently sized cover-videos. Results indicate that the proposed EHMM yields better results by reducing the data hiding time by 3–50%, improving the data retrieval rate by 22–77% with a minimum computational cost of 20–91%, and improving the security by 4–77% compared with state-of-the-art methods.
Keywords: Video steganography; Data hiding; Enhanced hidden Markov model; Conditional states; Fast data retrieval

Wen-der Yu, Jia-yang Hsu, Content-based text mining technique for retrieval of CAD documents, Automation in Construction, Volume 31, May 2013, Pages 65-74, ISSN 0926-5805, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2012.11.037.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0926580512002324)
Abstract: Abstract
The computer aided design (CAD) document provides an effective communication medium, a legal contract document, and a reusable design case for a construction project. Due to technological advancements in CAD industry, the volume of CAD documents has been increased dramatically in the database of construction organizations. Traditional retrieval methods relied on textual naming and indexing schemes that require the designers (engineers and architects) to memorize in details the meta-information used to characterize the drawings. Such approaches easily overwhelmed the users' memory capability and thus caused low reusability of CAD documents. In this paper, a content-based text mining technique is adopted to extract the textual content of a CAD document into a characteristic document (CD), which can be retrieved with similarity matching using a Vector Space Model (VSM), so that the automated and expedited retrievals of CAD documents from vast CAD databases become possible. A prototype system, namely Content-based CAD document Retrieval System (CCRS), is developed to implement the proposed method. After preliminary testing with a CAD database with 2094 Chinese annotated CAD drawings collected from two real-world construction projects and a public engineering drawing database, the proposed CCRS is proven to retrieve all relevant CAD documents with relatively high precision when appropriate query is specified. Finally, three search strategies are recommended for the users to narrow down search scope while a target CAD document is desired. It is concluded that the proposed content-based text mining approach provides a promising solution to improve the current difficulty encountered in retrieval and reusability of vast CAD documents for the construction industry.
Keywords: CAD; Text mining; Information retrieval; Characteristic document; Construction engineering

Dave Kush, Jeffrey Lidz, Colin Phillips, Relation-sensitive retrieval: Evidence from bound variable pronouns, Journal of Memory and Language, Volume 82, July 2015, Pages 18-40, ISSN 0749-596X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jml.2015.02.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0749596X15000224)
Abstract: Abstract
Formal grammatical theories make extensive use of syntactic relations (e.g. c-command, Reinhart, 1983) in the description of constraints on antecedent-anaphor dependencies. Recent research has motivated a model of processing that exploits a cue-based retrieval mechanism in content-addressable memory (e.g. Lewis, Vasishth, &amp; Van Dyke, 2006) in which item-to-item syntactic relations such as c-command are difficult to use as retrieval cues. As such, the c-command constraints of formal grammars are predicted to be poorly implemented by the retrieval mechanism. We tested whether memory access mechanisms are able to exploit relational information by investigating the processing of bound variable pronouns, a form of anaphoric dependency that imposes a c-command restriction on antecedent-pronoun relations. A quantificational NP (QP, e.g., no janitor) must c-command a pronoun in order to bind it. We contrasted the retrieval of QPs with the retrieval of referential NPs (e.g. the janitor), which can co-refer with a pronoun in the absence of c-command. In three off-line judgment studies and two eye-tracking studies, we show that referential NPs are easily accessed as antecedents, irrespective of whether they c-command the pronoun, but that quantificational NPs are accessed as antecedents only when they c-command the pronoun. These results are unexpected under theories that hold that retrieval exclusively uses a limited set of content features as retrieval cues. Our results suggest either that memory access mechanisms can make use of relational information as a guide for retrieval, or that the set of features that is used to encode syntactic relations in memory must be enriched.
Keywords: Pronouns; Binding; C-command; Memory retrieval; Sentence processing; Quantifiers

David Kappel, Rainer Haus, Gabriele Arnold, Error analysis for retrieval of Venus׳ IR surface emissivity from VIRTIS/VEX measurements, Planetary and Space Science, Volumes 113–114, August 2015, Pages 49-65, ISSN 0032-0633, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pss.2015.01.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S003206331500015X)
Abstract: Abstract
Venus׳ surface emissivity data in the infrared can serve to explore the planet׳s geology. The only global data with high spectral, spatial, and temporal resolution and coverage at present is supplied by nightside emission measurements acquired by the Visible and InfraRed Thermal Imaging Spectrometer VIRTIS-M-IR ( 1.0 – 5.1 μ m ) aboard ESA׳s Venus Express. A radiative transfer simulation and a retrieval algorithm can be used to determine surface emissivity in the nightside spectral transparency windows located at 1.02, 1.10, and 1.18 μ m . To obtain satisfactory fits to measured spectra, the retrieval pipeline also determines auxiliary parameters describing cloud properties from a certain spectral range. But spectral information content is limited, and emissivity is difficult to retrieve due to strong interferences from other parameters.

Based on a selection of representative synthetic VIRTIS-M-IR spectra in the range 1.0 – 2.3 μ m , this paper investigates emissivity retrieval errors that can be caused by interferences of atmospheric and surface parameters, by measurement noise, and by a priori data, and which retrieval pipeline leads to minimal errors.

Retrieval of emissivity from a single spectrum is shown to fail due to extremely large errors, although the fits to the reference spectra are very good. Neglecting geologic activity, it is suggested to apply a multi-spectrum retrieval technique to retrieve emissivity relative to an initial value as a parameter that is common to several measured spectra that cover the same surface bin. Retrieved emissivity maps of targets with limited extension (a few thousand km) are then additively renormalized to remove spatially large scale deviations from the true emissivity map that are due to spatially slowly varying interfering parameters. Corresponding multi-spectrum retrieval errors are estimated by a statistical scaling of the single-spectrum retrieval errors and are listed for 25 measurement repetitions. For the best of the studied retrieval pipelines, temporally varying interfering atmospheric parameters (cloud parameters, minor gas abundances) contribute errors in the order of 3%–10% of the true emissivity, depending on the surface window, the reference spectrum, and assuming statistical independence of the parameters. Temporally constant interfering parameters that spatially vary on a scale of 100 km (surface elevation, interfering emissivities) add 9%–16%. Measurement noise with a standard deviation of 10 − 4 W / ( m 2 sr μ m ) leads to additional 1%–4%. Reasonable modifications of a priori mean values have negligible impacts. Retrieved maps are most reliable at 1.02 μ m . There is an overall tendency for better results for cases with small cloud opacity, high surface elevation, high emissivity, and small observation angle, but this depends on the emissivity window, retrieval pipeline, and measurement repetition number. Calibration, preprocessing, and simulation errors can lead to additional errors. Based on the presented results, a subsequent paper will discuss emissivity data retrieval for a selected surface target.
Keywords: Venus; Surface emissivity; Retrieval error; VIRTIS

Yinglong Ma, Moyi Shi, Jun Wei, Cost and accuracy aware scientific workflow retrieval based on distance measure, Information Sciences, Volume 314, 1 September 2015, Pages 1-13, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2015.03.055.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025515002200)
Abstract: Abstract
Scientific workflows have been applied in many scientific areas with the large amount of complex data computation tasks such as life science, astronomy and earth science, etc. However, most existing approaches for scientific workflow retrieval neglect some constraints of quality of services (QoS) that users are really concerned about, and fail to allow users to express and retrieve scientific workflows with arbitrary constraints based on graph structures of workflows. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for scientific workflow retrieval with cost constraints. We present a graph representation model called Cost Constrained Graph (CCG) for representing scientific workflows with cost constraints. A distance measure is defined for accurate workflow retrieval. The CCGs representing candidate workflows can be ranked by comparing the similarity among them. We also theoretically prove that this measure satisfies all the four properties of distance. Furthermore, we develop a prototype system for editing, assignment of weights, and automatic similarity computation of workflows. At last, the related experiments are made to demonstrate the usefulness and efficiency of workflow retrieval based on our approach.
Keywords: Scientific workflow; Workflow retrieval; Distance measure; Matrix representation

Reshma Khemchandani, Pooja Saigal, Color image classification and retrieval through ternary decision structure based multi-category TWSVM, Neurocomputing, Volume 165, 1 October 2015, Pages 444-455, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2015.03.074.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231215004427)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we propose Ternary Decision Structure based multi-category twin support vector machines (TDS-TWSVM) classifier. Twin support vector machines (TWSVM) formulation deals with finding non-parallel plane classifier which is obtained by solving two related Quadratic Programming Problems (QPPs). The proposed TDS-TWSVM classifier is an extension of TWSVM so as to handle multi-class data and is more efficient in terms of training and testing time of classifiers. For a K-class problem, a balanced ternary structure requires ⌈ log 3 K ⌉ comparisons for evaluating a test sample. The experimental results depict that TDS-TWSVM outperforms One-Against-All TWSVM (OAA-TWSVM) and binary tree-based TWSVM (TB-TWSVM) in terms of classification accuracy. We have shown the efficacy of the proposed algorithm via image classification and further for image retrieval. Experiments are performed on a varied range of benchmark image databases with 5-fold cross validation.
Keywords: Twin support vector machines; Multi-category image classification and retrieval; Ternary decision structure; Cross validation; Machine learning

Jennifer E. Mack, Sarah D. Chandler, Aya Meltzer-Asscher, Emily Rogalski, Sandra Weintraub, M.-Marsel Mesulam, Cynthia K. Thompson, What do pauses in narrative production reveal about the nature of word retrieval deficits in PPA?, Neuropsychologia, Volume 77, October 2015, Pages 211-222, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2015.08.019.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393215301354)
Abstract: Abstract
Naming and word-retrieval deficits, which are common characteristics of primary progressive aphasia (PPA), differentially affect production across word classes (e.g., nouns, verbs) in some patients. Individuals with the agrammatic variant (PPA-G) often show greater difficulty producing verbs whereas those with the semantic variant (PPA-S) show greater noun deficits and those with logopenic PPA (PPA-L) evince no clear-cut differences in production of the two word classes. To determine the source of these production patterns, the present study examined word-finding pauses as conditioned by lexical variables (i.e., word class, frequency, length) in narrative speech samples of individuals with PPA-S (n=12), PPA-G (n=12), PPA-L (n=11), and cognitively healthy controls (n=12). We also examined the relation between pause distribution and cortical atrophy (i.e., cortical thickness) in nine left hemisphere regions of interest (ROIs) linked to word production. Results showed higher overall pause rates for PPA compared to unimpaired controls; however, greater naming severity was not associated with increased pause rate. Across all groups, more pauses were produced before lower vs. higher frequency words, with no independent effects of word length after controlling for frequency. With regard to word class, the PPA-L group showed a higher rate of pauses prior to production of nouns compared to verbs, consistent with noun-retrieval deficits arising at the lemma level of word production. Those with PPA-G and PPA-S, like controls, produced similar pause rates across word classes; however, lexical simplification (i.e., production of higher-frequency and/or shorter words) was evident in the more-impaired word class: nouns for PPA-S and verbs for PPA-G. These patterns are consistent with conceptual and/or lemma-level impairments for PPA-S, predominantly affecting objects/nouns, and a lemma-level verb-retrieval deficit for PPA-G, with a concomitant impairment in phonological encoding and articulation affecting overall pause rates. The greater tendency to pause before nouns was correlated with atrophy in the left precentral gyrus, inferior frontal gyrus and inferior parietal lobule, whereas the greater tendency to pause before less frequent and longer words was associated with atrophy in left precentral and inferior parietal regions.
Keywords: Primary progressive aphasia; Narrative analysis; Word retrieval deficits; Word class effects; Brain–behavior relationship

M.V. Gromovyi, V.I. Romanenko, S. Mieth, T. Halfmann, L.P. Yatsenko, Storage and retrieval of coherent optical information in atomic populations, Optics Communications, Volume 284, Issue 24, 1 December 2011, Pages 5710-5718, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2011.08.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401811008352)
Abstract: We propose a simple and powerful protocol to map an arbitrary atomic coherence between two quantum states into a population distribution of three metastable states, and later to retrieve the atomic coherence from the population distribution. The protocol applies simple sequences of radiation pulses with arbitrary temporal profile, either as coincident or as consecutive pulses. Mapping of rather short-lived atomic coherences into very long-lived atomic populations permits the prolongation of storage times (e.g. of optical information encoded in atomic coherences) by many orders of magnitude — without the need for complicated techniques to reduce homogeneous broadenings.
Keywords: Optical information storage; Atomic coherences; Three level scheme

Mohammed Amin Tahraoui, Karen Pinel-Sauvagnat, Cyril Laitang, Mohand Boughanem, Hamamache Kheddouci, Lei Ning, A survey on tree matching and XML retrieval, Computer Science Review, Volume 8, May 2013, Pages 1-23, ISSN 1574-0137, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cosrev.2013.02.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574013713000087)
Abstract: Abstract
With the increasing number of available XML documents, numerous approaches for retrieval have been proposed in the literature. They usually use the tree representation of documents and queries to process them, whether in an implicit or explicit way. Although retrieving XML documents can be considered as a tree matching problem between the query tree and the document trees, only a few approaches take advantage of the algorithms and methods proposed by the graph theory. In this paper, we aim at studying the theoretical approaches proposed in the literature for tree matching and at seeing how these approaches have been adapted to XML querying and retrieval, from both an exact and an approximate matching perspective. This study will allow us to highlight theoretical aspects of graph theory that have not been yet explored in XML retrieval.
Keywords: Approximate tree matching; Exact tree matching; Information retrieval; Graph; Tree; XML

Eric A. Woodcock, Richard White, Vaibhav A. Diwadkar, The dorsal prefrontal and dorsal anterior cingulate cortices exert complementary network signatures during encoding and retrieval in associative memory, Behavioural Brain Research, Volume 290, 1 September 2015, Pages 152-160, ISSN 0166-4328, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbr.2015.04.050.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166432815003058)
Abstract: Abstract
Cognitive control includes processes that facilitate execution of effortful cognitive tasks, including associative memory. Regions implicated in cognitive control during associative memory include the dorsal prefrontal (dPFC) and dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC). Here we investigated the relative degrees of network-related interactions originating in the dPFC and dACC during oscillating phases of associative memory: encoding and cued retrieval. Volunteers completed an established object-location associative memory paradigm during fMRI. Psychophysiological interactions modeled modulatory network interactions from the dPFC and dACC during memory encoding and retrieval. Results were evaluated in second level analyses of variance with seed region and memory process as factors. Each seed exerted differentiable modulatory effects during encoding and retrieval. The dACC exhibited greater modulation (than the dPFC) on the fusiform and parahippocampal gyrus during encoding, while the dPFC exhibited greater modulation (than the dACC) on the fusiform, hippocampus, dPFC and basal ganglia. During retrieval, the dPFC exhibited greater modulation (than the dACC) on the parahippocampal gyrus, hippocampus, superior parietal lobule, and dPFC. The most notable finding was a seed by process interaction indicating that the dACC and the dPFC exerted complementary modulatory control on the hippocampus during each of the associative memory processes. These results provide evidence for differentiable, yet complementary, control-related modulation by the dACC and dPFC, while establishing the primacy of dPFC in exerting network control during both associative memory phases. Our approach and findings are relevant for understanding basic processes in human memory and psychiatric disorders that impact associative memory-related networks.
Keywords: Associative memory; Cognitive control; Psychophysiological interaction; Memory encoding; Memory retrieval

A. Wolanin, V.V. Rozanov, T. Dinter, S. Noël, M. Vountas, J.P. Burrows, A. Bracher, Global retrieval of marine and terrestrial chlorophyll fluorescence at its red peak using hyperspectral top of atmosphere radiance measurements: Feasibility study and first results, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 166, 1 September 2015, Pages 243-261, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2015.05.018.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425715300183)
Abstract: Abstract
Chlorophyll fluorescence is directly linked to the physiology of phytoplankton or plants. Here, we present a new satellite remote sensing approach to retrieve chlorophyll fluorescence at its red peak (~ 685 nm) by using measurements from the hyperspectral instruments SCanning Imaging Absorption SpectroMeter for Atmospheric CHartographY (SCIAMACHY) and Global Ozone Monitoring Experiment-2 (GOME-2). This method, which is based on the Differential Optical Absorption Spectroscopy (DOAS) technique, was used to exploit narrow spectral structures resulting from the filling-in of the Fraunhofer Fe I line, which originates from fluorescence. The reference spectra for chlorophyll fluorescence were calculated by the coupled ocean–atmosphere radiative transfer model SCIATRAN. We compared our results on marine chlorophyll fluorescence observations with the MODIS Terra normalized Fluorescence Line Height (nFLH) product for the average of years 2003–2011 and year 2009. Our method also enables the retrieval of chlorophyll fluorescence above land vegetation scenes. The results for the fluorescence observed above terrestrial vegetation for July and December 2009 were compared to MODIS Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI). The comparisons show good spatial agreement between different retrievals providing evidence for the good performance of our algorithm. The method presented is generic and can be applied to other hyperspectral instruments in the future. Having established the retrieval technique, extensive studies of chlorophyll fluorescence will improve global knowledge on physiology and photosynthetic efficiency, in both the marine and terrestrial realms, and its dependence on environmental factors.
Keywords: Sun-induced fluorescence; Retrieval; SCIAMACHY; GOME-2; Fraunhofer-line approach; Hyperspectral remote sensing; Ocean–atmosphere coupled radiative transfer

Mamatha C. Chary, Jayson P. Cruz, Massimo Bardi, Elizabeth A. Becker, Paternal retrievals increase testosterone levels in both male and female California mouse (Peromyscus californicus) offspring, Hormones and Behavior, Volume 73, July 2015, Pages 23-29, ISSN 0018-506X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.05.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0018506X15001014)
Abstract: Abstract
The importance of maternal care on offspring development has received considerable attention, although more recently, researchers have begun to focus on the significance of paternal contributions. In the monogamous and bi-parental California mouse, fathers provide high levels of care, and therefore serve as a model system for studying paternal effects on behavior and underlying neuroendocrine mechanisms. Paternal retrievals in this species influence long term changes in brain (expression of arginine vasopressin—AVP) and behavior (aggression and parenting) in adult male offspring. Further, paternal retrievals induce a transient increase in testosterone (T) in male offspring, which is thought to mediate the relationship between paternal retrievals and AVP expression. Although the father–son relationship has been well characterized, few studies have examined father–daughter interactions. In California mice, paternal retrievals increase aggression in female offspring. Although T has been implicated in the regulation of female aggression, it remains unclear whether T may underlie long-term changes in female offspring aggression in response to paternal retrievals. In the current study, we examined the influence of paternal retrievals on T in both male and female offspring. Retrievals were manipulated experimentally by displacement of the pup and trunk blood was collected from retrieved, non-retrieved, and non-manipulated (baseline) pups. We found that fathers expressed similar levels of retrievals towards sons and daughters, and that T levels were elevated in retrieved, as compared to non-retrieved offspring. Similar to what has been previously described in male offspring and replicated here, female offspring that were retrieved had higher T levels than non-retrieved females. Neither females nor males experienced a change in corticosterone levels in response to retrievals suggesting offspring do not mount a stress response to paternal care. Therefore, our data suggest that paternal retrievals may serve similar functions in shaping adult behavior in both male and female offspring via modulation of hormone levels.
Keywords: Paternal retrievals; Testosterone; Paternal behavior; Peromyscus californicus

Gholam Ali Montazer, Davar Giveki, Content based image retrieval system using clustered scale invariant feature transforms, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 126, Issue 18, September 2015, Pages 1695-1699, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2015.05.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402615002880)
Abstract: Abstract
The large amounts of image collections available from a variety of sources have posed increasing technical challenges to computer systems to store/transmit and index/manage the image data to make such collections easily accessible. To search and retrieve the expected images from the database a content-based image retrieval (CBIR) system is highly demanded. CBIR extracts features of a query image and try to match them with extracted features from images in the database. This paper introduces two novel methods as image descriptors. The basis of the proposed methods is built upon scale invariant feature transform (SIFT) algorithm. After extracting image features using SIFT, k-means clustering is applied on feature matrix extracted by SIFT, and then two new kinds of dimensionality reductions are applied to make SIFT features more efficient and realistic for image retrieval problem. Using the proposed strategies we cannot only take the advantage of SIFT features but also we can highly decrease the memory storage used by SIFT features. As well as in order to compare images we do not need to run the time-consuming matching algorithm of SIFT. Finally, proposed methods are compared with two popular methods namely, color auto-correlogram and wavelet transform. As a result, our proposed retrieval system is fast and accurate and it can efficiently manage large databases. Experimental results on two popular databases, Caltech 101 (with 9144 images) and Li database (with 2360) images, show the superiority and efficiency of the proposed methods.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval; Scale invariant feature transform (SIFT); Cardinality matrix of cluster-sets (CMCS); Resultant vector of clustered SIFT features (RVCSF)

Anastasia Nikolaeva, Anna Butorina, Andrey Prokofiev, Anna Pavlova, Denis Bondarev, Tatiana Stroganova, Verb generation task: early automatic information retrieval or late effortful decision-making?, International Journal of Psychophysiology, Volume 108, October 2016, Pages 78-79, ISSN 0167-8760, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2016.07.252.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167876016303737)

Nishant Shrivastava, Vipin Tyagi, An efficient technique for retrieval of color images in large databases, Computers & Electrical Engineering, Volume 46, August 2015, Pages 314-327, ISSN 0045-7906, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2014.11.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790614003048)
Abstract: Abstract
Traditional image retrieval systems match the input image by searching the whole database repeatedly for various image features. Intermediate results produced for these features are merged using data fusion techniques to produce one common output. In this paper, a new image retrieval technique is presented, which retrieves similar images in three stages. A fixed number of images is first retrieved based on their color feature similarity. The relevance of the retrieved images is further improved by matching their texture and shape features respectively. This eliminates the need of fusion and normalization techniques, which are commonly used to calculate final similarity scores. This reduces the computation time and increases the overall accuracy of the system. Moreover, in this technique, global and region features are combined to obtain better retrieval accuracy. Experimental results on two databases (COREL and CIFAR) have shown that the proposed technique produces better results while consuming less computation time for large image databases.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Feature vector; Histogram; Gabor filter; CBIR

Guang-Hai Liu, Jing-Yu Yang, ZuoYong Li, Content-based image retrieval using computational visual attention model, Pattern Recognition, Volume 48, Issue 8, August 2015, Pages 2554-2566, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2015.02.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320315000539)
Abstract: Abstract
It is a very challenging problem to well simulate visual attention mechanisms for content-based image retrieval. In this paper, we propose a novel computational visual attention model, namely saliency structure model, for content-based image retrieval. First, a novel visual cue, namely color volume, with edge information together is introduced to detect saliency regions instead of using the primary visual features (e.g., color, intensity and orientation). Second, the energy feature of the gray-level co-occurrence matrices is used for globally suppressing maps, instead of the local maxima normalization operator in Itti׳s model. Third, a novel image representation method, namely saliency structure histogram, is proposed to stimulate orientation-selective mechanism for image representation within CBIR framework. We have evaluated the performances of the proposed algorithm on two datasets. The experimental results clearly demonstrate that the proposed algorithm significantly outperforms the standard BOW baseline and micro-structure descriptor.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Gray level co-occurrence matrix; Visual attention; Saliency structure model; Saliency structure histogram

Ranju Mandal, Partha Pratim Roy, Umapada Pal, Michael Blumenstein, Multi-lingual date field extraction for automatic document retrieval by machine, Information Sciences, Volume 314, 1 September 2015, Pages 277-292, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2014.08.037.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025514008342)
Abstract: Abstract
Robotic intelligence has recently received significant attention in the research community. Application of such artificial intelligence can be used to perform automatic document retrieval and interpretation by a robot through query. So, it is necessary to extract the key information from the document based on the query to produce the desired feedback. For this purpose, in this paper we propose a system for automatic date field extraction from multi-lingual (English, Devnagari and Bangla scripts) handwritten documents. The date is a key piece of information, which can be used in various robotic applications such as date-wise document indexing/retrieval. In order to design the system, first the script of the document is identified, and based on the identified script, word components of each text line are classified into month and non-month classes using word-level feature extraction and classification. Next, non-month words are segmented into individual components and labelled into one of text, digit, punctuation or contraction categories. Subsequently, the date patterns are searched using the labelled components. Both numeric and semi-numeric regular expressions have been used for date part extraction. Dynamic Time Warping (DTW) and profile feature-based approaches are used for classification of month/non-month words. Other date components such as numerals and punctuation marks are recognised using a gradient-based feature and Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier. The experiments are performed on English, Devnagari and Bangla document datasets and the encouraging results obtained from the system indicate the effectiveness of the proposed system.
Keywords: Robot reading; Robot retrieval of document; Date-based indexing; Handwritten date extraction; Date spotting; Multi-lingual documents

Jun Xiao, Zhangpeng Tang, Yinfu Feng, Zhidong Xiao, Sketch-based human motion retrieval via selected 2D geometric posture descriptor, Signal Processing, Volume 113, August 2015, Pages 1-8, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2015.01.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168415000067)
Abstract: Abstract
Sketch-based human motion retrieval is a hot topic in computer animation in recent years. In this paper, we present a novel sketch-based human motion retrieval method via selected 2-dimensional (2D) Geometric Posture Descriptor (2GPD). Specially, we firstly propose a rich 2D pose feature call 2D Geometric Posture Descriptor (2GPD), which is effective in encoding the 2D posture similarity by exploiting the geometric relationships among different human body parts. Since the original 2GPD is of high dimension and redundant, a semi-supervised feature selection algorithm derived from Laplacian Score is then adopted to select the most discriminative feature component of 2GPD as feature representation, and we call it as selected 2GPD. Finally, a posture-by-posture motion retrieval algorithm is used to retrieve a motion sequence by sketching several key postures. Experimental results on CMU human motion database demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approach.
Keywords: Motion retrieval; Sketch-based; Feature selection; Computer animation

Heinz Mueller, Theodor Nyfeler, Quality in patent information retrieval – Communication as the key factor, World Patent Information, Volume 33, Issue 4, December 2011, Pages 383-388, ISSN 0172-2190, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wpi.2011.06.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0172219011001062)
Abstract: The perception of what constitutes the key quality factor of a patent search varies considerably, depending on the customers’ background and intended use of the search results. A distinction can be made between what may be termed intrinsic quality as a measure of the search process and its environment combined with the searcher’s skills and extrinsic quality, which aims to define the usefulness of the results for the customer. Intrinsic and extrinsic quality factors all require an intensive and on-going communication between the searcher and the customer: quality can only be achieved through partnership.
Keywords: Patent information quality; Communication; Search service providers; Search skills; Tailored search services

Biao Leng, Shuang Guo, Xiangyang Zhang, Zhang Xiong, 3D object retrieval with stacked local convolutional autoencoder, Signal Processing, Volume 112, July 2015, Pages 119-128, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2014.09.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168414004150)
Abstract: Abstract
The success of object recognition and retrieval is largely determined by data representation. A good feature descriptor can detect the high-level abstraction of objects, which contains much discriminative information. In this paper, a novel 3D object retrieval method is proposed based on stacked local convolutional autoencoder (SLCAE). In this approach, the greedy layerwise strategy is applied to train SLCAE, and gradient descent method is used for training each layer. After the processing of training, the representations of input data can be obtained, regarded as the features of 3D objects. The experiments are conducted on three publicly available 3D object datasets, and the results demonstrate that the proposed method can greatly improve 3D object retrieval performance, compared with several state-of-the-art methods.
Keywords: Object representation; Stacked local convolutional autoencoder; 3D object retrieval

Ludovico Mineo, Carmen Concerto, Dhaval Patel, Tyrone Mayorga, Eileen Chusid, Carmenrita Infortuna, Eugenio Aguglia, Yasmin Sarraf, Fortunato Battaglia, Modulation of sensorimotor circuits during retrieval of negative Autobiographical Memories: Exploring the impact of personality dimensions, Neuropsychologia, Available online 9 April 2017, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2017.04.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393217301379)
Abstract: Abstract
Autobiographical Memory (AM) retrieval refers to recollection of experienced past events. Previous Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) studies have shown that presentation of emotional negative stimuli affects human motor cortex excitability resulting in larger motor evoked potentials (MEPs). Up to date no TMS studies have been carried out in order to investigate the effect of personal memories with negative emotional value on corticospinal excitability. In this study we hypothesized that negative AM retrieval will modulate corticomotor excitability and sensorimotor integration as determined by TMS neurophysiological parameters. Furthermore, we investigated whether TMS responses during retrieval of negative AM are associated with specific personality traits.

Twelve healthy subjects were asked to recall either a negative or a neutral AM across two different days in a randomized order. During this memory retrieval, the following TMS parameters were recorded: MEPs; Short- interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and Intracortical facilitation (ICF); Short-latency afferent inhibition (SAI) and Long- latency afferent inhibition (LAI). Personality traits were assessed by using the Big Five scale. Statistical analysis was performed using factorial ANOVAs and multiple linear regression models. When compared to retrieval of neutral AM, recollection of negative AM induced a larger increase in MEP amplitude, an increase in ICF, and a decrease in SAI. The neuroticism personality trait was a significant predictor of the MEP amplitude increase during retrieval of negative AM. Altogether these results indicate that cortical excitability and sensorimotor integration are selectively modulated by the valence of AM. These results provide the first TMS evidence that the modulatory effect of the AM retrieval is associated with specific personality traits.
Keywords: Transcranial magnetic stimulation; Sensorimotor integration; Autobiographical Memories; ICF; Neuroticism

David Pickup, Xianfang Sun, Paul L. Rosin, Ralph R. Martin, Euclidean-distance-based canonical forms for non-rigid 3D shape retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Volume 48, Issue 8, August 2015, Pages 2500-2512, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2015.02.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320315000813)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieval of 3D shapes is a challenging problem, especially for non-rigid shapes. One approach giving favourable results uses multidimensional scaling (MDS) to compute a canonical form for each mesh, after which rigid shape matching can be applied. However, a drawback of this method is that it requires geodesic distances to be computed between all pairs of mesh vertices. Due to the super-quadratic computational complexity, canonical forms can only be computed for low-resolution meshes. We suggest a linear time complexity method for computing a canonical form, using Euclidean distances between pairs of a small subset of vertices. This approach has comparable retrieval accuracy but lower time complexity than using global geodesic distances, allowing it to be used on higher resolution meshes, or for more meshes to be considered within a time budget.
Keywords: Shape retrieval; Canonical forms

Qiang Liu, Shunlin Liang, Zhiqiang Xiao, Hongliang Fang, Retrieval of leaf area index using temporal, spectral, and angular information from multiple satellite data, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 145, 5 April 2014, Pages 25-37, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2014.01.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425714000431)
Abstract: Abstract
The leaf area index (LAI) is one of the most critical structural parameters of the vegetation canopy in regional and global biogeochemical, ecological, and meteorological applications. Data gaps and spatial and temporal inconsistencies exist in most of the existing global LAI products derived from single-satellite data because of their limited information content. Furthermore, the accuracy of current LAI products may not meet the requirements of certain applications. Therefore, LAI retrieval from multiple satellite data is becoming popular. An existing LAI inversion scheme using the ensemble Kalman filter (EnKF) technique is further extended in this study to integrate temporal, spectral, and angular information from Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), SPOT/VEGETATION, and Multi-angle Imaging Spectroradiometer (MISR) data. The recursive update of LAI climatology with the retrieved LAI and the coupling of a canopy radiative-transfer model and a dynamic process model using the EnKF technique can fill in missing data and produce a consistent accurate time-series LAI product. During each iteration, we defined a 5 ∗ 1 sliding window and compared the RMSEs in the selected window to determine the minimum. Validation results at six sites demonstrate that the combination of temporal information from multiple sensors, spectral information provided by red and near-infrared (NIR) bands, and angular information from MISR bidirectional reflectance factor (BRF) data can provide a more accurate estimate of LAI than previously available.
Keywords: Leaf area index; Multiple sensors; Ensemble Kalman filter; Iterative method

Pieter-Jan T.K. Vandekerckhove, Matthew G. Teeter, Douglas D.R. Naudie, James L. Howard, Steven J. MacDonald, Brent A. Lanting, The Impact of Wear and Lift-Off on Coronal Plane Alignment in TKA and Implications to Future Constrained Revision: A Retrieval Study, The Journal of Arthroplasty, Volume 30, Issue 11, November 2015, Pages 2017-2020, ISSN 0883-5403, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arth.2015.05.048.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0883540315004490)
Abstract: Abstract
Current discussion exists whether to position a total knee arthroplasty (TKA) in slight undercorrection in varus osteoarthritis. The goal of this study was to analyse the effect of wear and lateral lift-off in primary TKA on coronal plane alignment and the implication to future constrained revision TKA. Seventy-six retrieved tibial inserts were analysed for the ratio of wear (RW), lateral lift-off and implications for future constrained revision surgery according to the coronal plane alignment. The RW significantly affects the coronal plane alignment in TKA. Progressive wear and lateral lift-off were seen with progressive varus alignment. However, there was no difference in constrained revision between mild varus and moderate varus aligned TKAs.
Keywords: coronal plane alignment; total knee arthroplasty; retrieval study; wear; lift-off; constrained

Peng Yang, Lixin Miao, Zhaojie Xue, Bin Ye, Variable neighborhood search heuristic for storage location assignment and storage/retrieval scheduling under shared storage in multi-shuttle automated storage/retrieval systems, Transportation Research Part E: Logistics and Transportation Review, Volume 79, July 2015, Pages 164-177, ISSN 1366-5545, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tre.2015.04.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1366554515000988)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper examines the joint optimization of storage location assignment and storage/retrieval scheduling in multi-shuttle automated storage/retrieval systems (AS/RSs) under shared storage, in which the reuse of empty location yielded by retrieval operation is allowed. From the view of analytical model, the advantage of operational mode under shared storage is verified. A variable neighborhood search (VNS) algorithm is developed to solve the large-sized problems. Various numerical experiments are conducted to evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithm and investigate the impact of different parameters on computational efficiency.
Keywords: Shared storage; Storage location assignment; Storage/retrieval scheduling; Variable neighborhood search; Multi-shuttle AS/RS

Shiv Ram Dubey, Satish Kumar Singh, Rajat Kumar Singh, Rotation and scale invariant hybrid image descriptor and retrieval, Computers & Electrical Engineering, Volume 46, August 2015, Pages 288-302, ISSN 0045-7906, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2015.04.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790615001391)
Abstract: Abstract
Accurate image retrieval is required to index and retrieve large number of images from huge databases. In this paper, an efficient approach is presented to encode the color and textural features of images from the local neighborhood of each pixel. The color features are extracted by quantizing the RGB color space into a single channel with reduced number of shades. The texture information is encoded with structuring patterns generated from the locally structured elements chosen as a basis. Color and textural features are fused together to construct the inherently rotation and scale-invariant hybrid image descriptor (RSHD). This fusion is carried out by extracting textural cues over each shade independently. RSHD has been tested on the Corel dataset and experimental results suggest that RSHD outperforms state-of-the-art descriptors. The performance of the RSHD is promising under rotation and scaling. It can also be effectively used under more complex image transformations.
Keywords: Structure element; Rotation-invariant descriptor; Scale-invariant descriptor; Texture analysis; Content-based image retrieval; Color quantization

Celia B. Harris, Akira R. O’Connor, John Sutton, Cue generation and memory construction in direct and generative autobiographical memory retrieval, Consciousness and Cognition, Volume 33, May 2015, Pages 204-216, ISSN 1053-8100, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.concog.2014.12.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053810014002463)
Abstract: Abstract
Theories of autobiographical memory emphasise effortful, generative search processes in memory retrieval. However recent research suggests that memories are often retrieved directly, without effortful search. We investigated whether direct and generative retrieval differed in the characteristics of memories recalled, or only in terms of retrieval latency. Participants recalled autobiographical memories in response to cue words. For each memory, they reported whether it was retrieved directly or generatively, rated its visuo-spatial perspective, and judged its accompanying recollective experience. Our results indicated that direct retrieval was commonly reported and was faster than generative retrieval, replicating recent findings. The characteristics of directly retrieved memories differed from generatively retrieved memories: directly retrieved memories had higher field perspective ratings and lower observer perspective ratings. However, retrieval mode did not influence recollective experience. We discuss our findings in terms of cue generation and content construction, and the implication for reconstructive models of autobiographical memory.
Keywords: Autobiographical memory; Direct retrieval; Generative retrieval; Visuo-spatial perspective; Recollective experience; Memory reconstruction

Chistophe Pierard, Ali Krazem, Nadia Henkous, Laurence Decorte, Daniel Béracochéa, Acute stress blocks the caffeine-induced enhancement of contextual memory retrieval in mice, European Journal of Pharmacology, Volume 761, 15 August 2015, Pages 70-78, ISSN 0014-2999, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejphar.2015.04.030.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S001429991500374X)
Abstract: Abstract
This study investigated in mice the dose-effect of caffeine on memory retrieval in non-stress and stress conditions. C57 Bl/6 Jico mice learned two consecutive discriminations (D1 and D2) in a four-hole board which involved either distinct contextual (CSD) or similar contextual (SSD) cues. All mice received an i.p. injection of vehicle or caffeine (8, 16 or 32 mg/kg) 30 min before the test session. Results showed that in non-stress conditions, the 16 mg/kg caffeine dose induced a significant enhancement of D1 performance in CSD but not in SSD. Hence, we studied the effect of an acute stress (electric footshocks) administered 15 min before the test session on D1 performance in caffeine-treated mice.

Results showed that stress significantly decreased D1 performance in vehicle-treated controls and the memory-enhancing effect induced by the 16 mg/kg caffeine dose in non-stress condition is no longer observed. Interestingly, whereas caffeine-treated mice exhibited weaker concentrations of plasma corticosterone as compared to vehicles in non-stress condition, stress significantly increased plasma corticosterone concentrations in caffeine-treated mice which reached similar level to that of controls. Overall, the acute stress blocked both the endocrinological and memory retrieval enhancing effects of caffeine.
Keywords: Caffeine-stress; Memory retrieval; Anxiety; Corticosterone; Glucocorticoids

Chao Zuo, Qian Chen, Lei Tian, Laura Waller, Anand Asundi, Transport of intensity phase retrieval and computational imaging for partially coherent fields: The phase space perspective, Optics and Lasers in Engineering, Volume 71, August 2015, Pages 20-32, ISSN 0143-8166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optlaseng.2015.03.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0143816615000457)
Abstract: Abstract
The well-known transport of intensity equation (TIE) allows the phase of a coherent field to be retrieved non-interferometrically given positive defined intensity measurements and appropriate boundary conditions. However, in many cases like the optical microscopy, the imaging systems often involve extended and polychromatic sources for which the effect of the partial coherence is not negligible. In this work, we present a phase-space formulation for the TIE for analyzing phase retrieval under partially coherent illumination. The conventional TIE is reformulated in the joint space-spatial frequency domain using Wigner distribution functions. The phase-space formulation clarifies the physical meaning of the phase of partially coherent fields, and enables explicit account of partial coherence effects on phase retrieval. The correspondence between the Wigner distribution function and the light field in geometric optics limit further enables TIE to become a simple yet effective approach to realize high-resolution light field imaging for slowly varying phase specimens, in a purely computational way.
Keywords: Transport of intensity equation; Phase retrieval; Phase space; Partial coherence; Light field imaging

M. Stengel, S. Mieruch, M. Jerg, K.-G. Karlsson, R. Scheirer, B. Maddux, J.F. Meirink, C. Poulsen, R. Siddans, A. Walther, R. Hollmann, The Clouds Climate Change Initiative: Assessment of state-of-the-art cloud property retrieval schemes applied to AVHRR heritage measurements, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 162, 1 June 2015, Pages 363-379, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2013.10.035.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425713004197)
Abstract: Abstract
Cloud property retrievals from 3 decades of the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) measurements provide a unique opportunity for a long-term analysis of clouds. In this study, the accuracy of AVHRR-derived cloud properties cloud mask, cloud-top height, cloud phase and cloud liquid water path is assessed using three state-of-the-art retrieval schemes. In addition, the same retrieval schemes are applied to the AVHRR heritage channels of the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) to create AVHRR-like retrievals with higher spatial resolution and based on presumably more accurate spectral calibration. The cloud property retrievals were collocated and inter-compared with observations from CloudSat, CALIPSO and AMSR-E The resulting comparison exhibited good agreement in general. The schemes provide correct cloud detection in 82 to 90% of all cloudy cases. With correct identification of clear-sky in 61 to 85% of all clear areas, the schemes are slightly biased towards cloudy conditions. The evaluation of the cloud phase classification shows correct identification of liquid clouds in 61 to 97% and a correct identification of ice clouds in 68 to 95%, demonstrating a large variability among the schemes. Cloud-top height (CTH) retrievals were of relatively similar quality with standard deviations ranging from 2.1 km to 2.7 km. Significant negative biases in these retrievals are found in particular for cirrus clouds. The biases decrease if optical depth thresholds are applied to determine the reference CTH measure. Cloud liquid water path (LWP) is also retrieved well with relative low standard deviations (20 to 28 g/m2), negative bias and high correlations. Cloud ice water path (IWP) retrievals of AVHRR and MODIS exhibit a relative high uncertainty with standard deviations between 800 and 1400 g/m2, which in relative terms exceed 100% when normalized with the mean IWP. However, the global histogram distributions of IWP were similar to the reference dataset.

MODIS retrievals are for most comparisons of slightly better quality than AVHRR-based retrievals. Additionally, the choice of different near-infrared channels, 3.7 μm as opposed to 1.6 μm, can have a significant impact on the retrieval quality, most pronounced for IWP, with better accuracy for the 1.6 μm channel setup. This study presents a novel assessment of the quality of cloud properties derived from AVHRR channels, which quantifies the accuracy of the considered retrievals based on common approaches and validation data. Furthermore, it assesses the capabilities of AVHRR-like spectral information for retrieving cloud properties in the light of generating climate data records of cloud properties from three decades of AVHRR measurements.
Keywords: Satellite; AVHRR; MODIS; Cloud retrieval; Validation; A-Train; Inter-comparison

Travis Gagie, Juha Kärkkäinen, Gonzalo Navarro, Simon J. Puglisi, Colored range queries and document retrieval, Theoretical Computer Science, Volume 483, 29 April 2013, Pages 36-50, ISSN 0304-3975, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tcs.2012.08.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304397512007657)
Abstract: Colored range queries are a well-studied topic in computational geometry and database research that, in the past decade, have found exciting applications in information retrieval. In this paper, we give improved time and space bounds for three important one-dimensional colored range queries — colored range listing, colored range top- k queries and colored range counting — and, as a consequence, new bounds for various document retrieval problems on general collections of sequences. Colored range listing is the problem of preprocessing a sequence S [ 1 , n ] of colors so that, later, given an interval [ i , i + ℓ − 1 ] , we list the different colors in S [ i , i + ℓ − 1 ] . Colored range top- k queries ask instead for k most frequent colors in the interval. Colored range counting asks for the number of different colors in the interval.

We first describe a framework including almost all recent results on colored range listing and document listing, which suggests new combinations of data structures for these problems. For example, we give the first compressed data structure (using n H k ( S ) + o ( n log σ ) bits, for any k = o ( log σ n ) , where H k ( S ) is the k -th order empirical entropy of S and σ the number of different colors in S ) that answers colored range listing queries in constant time per returned result. We also give an efficient data structure for document listing whose size is bounded in terms of the k -th order entropy of the library of documents. We then show how (approximate) colored top- k queries can be reduced to (approximate) range-mode queries on subsequences, yielding the first efficient data structure for this problem. Finally, we show how modified wavelet trees can support colored range counting using n H 0 ( S ) + O ( n ) + o ( n H 0 ( S ) ) bits, and answer queries in O ( log ℓ ) time. As far as we know, this is the first data structure in which the query time depends only on ℓ and not on n . We also show how our data structure can be made dynamic.
Keywords: Data structures; 1D range queries; Document retrieval; Wavelet trees; Information retrieval

Mona Mahrous Mohammed, Amr Badr, M.B. Abdelhalim, Image classification and retrieval using optimized Pulse-Coupled Neural Network, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 42, Issue 11, 1 July 2015, Pages 4927-4936, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2015.02.019.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417415001189)
Abstract: Abstract
Content-Based Image Retrieval (CBIR) has become a powerful tool that is used in many image applications and search engines. Thus, many techniques and approaches for CBIR were developed in literature. The CBIR approach works on the visual features of the image rather than a descriptive text. Therefore, it provides more effective and efficient retrieval. On the other hand, PCNN has proved its efficiency as an image processing tool for various tasks such as image segmentation and recognition, feature extraction, edge and object detection. This article introduces a technique for content-based image classification and retrieval using PCNN. The proposed technique uses an optimized Pulse-Coupled Neural Network (PCNN) to extract the visual features of the image in a form of a numeric vector called image signature. An optimization mechanism was applied to the PCNN parameters in order to improve the signature quality. Thus improving the classification and retrieval results. Additionally, it employs the K-Nearest Neighbor (K-NN) algorithm for classification and matching. By applying classification before retrieval, the number of images in the search space is optimized to include one category instead of multiple categories. Moreover, we developed a CBIR prototype to validate our technique. The results show that our technique can retrieve and classify images efficiently. Furthermore, we evaluated our prototype against one of the widely used techniques and it was proven that the proposed technique can enhance the search results and improve the accuracy by 3.5%.
Keywords: Content-Based Image Retrieval (CBIR); Image classification; Visual features; Pulse-Coupled Neural Network (PCNN); Image signature; K-Nearest Neighbor; Genetic algorithm

Sicheng Zhao, Hongxun Yao, Yanhao Zhang, Yasi Wang, Shaohui Liu, View-based 3D object retrieval via multi-modal graph learning, Signal Processing, Volume 112, July 2015, Pages 110-118, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2014.09.038.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168414004666)
Abstract: Abstract
Content-based 3D object retrieval has wide applications in various domains, ranging from virtual reality to computer aided design and entertainment. With the rapid development of digitizing technologies, different views of 3D objects are captured, which requires for effective and efficient view-based 3D object retrieval (V3DOR) techniques. As each object is represented by a set of multiple views, V3DOR becomes a group matching problem. Most of state-of-the-art V3DOR methods use one single feature to describe a 3D object, which is often insufficient. In this paper, we propose a feature fusion method via multi-modal graph learning for view-based 3D object retrieval. Firstly, different visual features, including 2D Zernike moments, 2D Fourier descriptor and 2D Krawtchouk moments, are extracted to describe each view of a 3D object. Then the Hausdorff distance is computed to measure the similarity between two 3D objects with multiple views. Finally we construct multiple graphs based on different features and learn the optimized weights of each graph automatically for feature fusion task. Extensive experiments are conducted on the ETH-80 dataset and the National Taiwan University 3D model dataset. The results demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed method, as compared to the state-of-the-art approaches.
Keywords: 3D object retrieval; Multi-modal graph learning; Feature fusion; Multi-views

Sungbin Choi, Jinwook Choi, Sooyoung Yoo, Heechun Kim, Youngho Lee, Semantic concept-enriched dependence model for medical information retrieval, Journal of Biomedical Informatics, Volume 47, February 2014, Pages 18-27, ISSN 1532-0464, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2013.08.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S153204641300141X)
Abstract: AbstractObjective
In medical information retrieval research, semantic resources have been mostly used by expanding the original query terms or estimating the concept importance weight. However, implicit term-dependency information contained in semantic concept terms has been overlooked or at least underused in most previous studies. In this study, we incorporate a semantic concept-based term-dependence feature into a formal retrieval model to improve its ranking performance.
Design
Standardized medical concept terms used by medical professionals were assumed to have implicit dependency within the same concept. We hypothesized that, by elaborately revising the ranking algorithms to favor documents that preserve those implicit dependencies, the ranking performance could be improved. The implicit dependence features are harvested from the original query using MetaMap. These semantic concept-based dependence features were incorporated into a semantic concept-enriched dependence model (SCDM). We designed four different variants of the model, with each variant having distinct characteristics in the feature formulation method.
Measurements
We performed leave-one-out cross validations on both a clinical document corpus (TREC Medical records track) and a medical literature corpus (OHSUMED), which are representative test collections in medical information retrieval research.
Results
Our semantic concept-enriched dependence model consistently outperformed other state-of-the-art retrieval methods. Analysis shows that the performance gain has occurred independently of the concept’s explicit importance in the query.
Conclusion
By capturing implicit knowledge with regard to the query term relationships and incorporating them into a ranking model, we could build a more robust and effective retrieval model, independent of the concept importance.
Keywords: Search engine; Term dependence model; Ranking; Semantic concept; Unified medical language system

Andrew Nurse, Designing for Digital Reading, J. Pearson, G. Buchanan, H. Thimbleby, G. Marchiononi (Ed.), in: Part of Synthesis Lectures on Information Concepts, Retrieval, and Services. Morgan and Claypool, San Rafael, CA (2014), International Journal of Information Management, Volume 34, Issue 4, August 2014, Page 561, ISSN 0268-4012, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2014.04.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0268401214000401)

Benjamin de Foy, Zifeng Lu, David G. Streets, Lok N. Lamsal, Bryan N. Duncan, Estimates of power plant NOx emissions and lifetimes from OMI NO2 satellite retrievals, Atmospheric Environment, Volume 116, September 2015, Pages 1-11, ISSN 1352-2310, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2015.05.056.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1352231015301291)
Abstract: Abstract
Isolated power plants with well characterized emissions serve as an ideal test case of methods to estimate emissions using satellite data. In this study we evaluate the Exponentially-Modified Gaussian (EMG) method and the box model method based on mass balance for estimating known NOx emissions from satellite retrievals made by the Ozone Monitoring Instrument (OMI). We consider 29 power plants in the USA which have large NOx plumes that do not overlap with other sources and which have emissions data from the Continuous Emission Monitoring System (CEMS). This enables us to identify constraints required by the methods, such as which wind data to use and how to calculate background values. We found that the lifetimes estimated by the methods are too short to be representative of the chemical lifetime. Instead, we introduce a separate lifetime parameter to account for the discrepancy between estimates using real data and those that theory would predict. In terms of emissions, the EMG method required averages from multiple years to give accurate results, whereas the box model method gave accurate results for individual ozone seasons.
Keywords: Emission inventory; Satellite retrieval; OMI; CEMS; Power plant NOx; Chemical lifetime

Ming Ji, Wei Zhao, Zheng Liu, A statistical design approach to unsupervised codeword selection in image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 157, 1 June 2015, Pages 323-334, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.10.030.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231214013691)
Abstract: Abstract
Recently, the bag-of-features (BoF) representation has attracted substantial interest in large scale image retrieval. In BoF representation, images are treated as collections of local invariant descriptors. A visual codebook is constructed by quantizing the local descriptors into clusters, whose centers are called codewords. Then each image could be represented by the frequency histogram over the codebook, and existing text retrieval techniques such as inverted indexing could be applied to image retrieval. It has been recognized that the quality of the codebook is critical to the performance of BoF-based image retrieval systems, and codeword selection is therefore a fundamental problem. Many of the existing approaches for codeword selection make use of the label information of the images. However, collecting the labels of a large amount of images is very expensive. In this paper, we investigate the problem of codeword selection in the absence of labels. Inspired from the techniques of statistical design, we propose two novel unsupervised learning algorithms to select the codewords for an image retrieval system. Specifically, we assume that the relationship between the relevance score and the BoF representation of an image could be expressed by a linear regression model, and select the codewords which can improve the regression model the most. In other words, if the selected codewords are used to train the regression model, the expected prediction error can be minimized. Extensive experimental results have demonstrated the effectiveness of our proposed methods.
Keywords: Statistical design; Codeword selection; Image retrieval

Heather L. Price, Thomas L. Phenix, True (but not false) memories are subject to retrieval-induced forgetting in children, Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, Volume 133, May 2015, Pages 1-15, ISSN 0022-0965, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jecp.2015.01.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022096515000211)
Abstract: Abstract
Veridical and false memories of children aged 6 to 15 years were studied in two experiments with the retrieval-induced forgetting paradigm. Using the Deese–Roediger–McDermott (DRM) false memory word lists, children’s reports of true, but not false, memories showed evidence of retrieval-induced forgetting. These differences were observed across delays as long as 2 days following word list presentation. The lack of observation of retrieval-induced forgetting in children’s false memories provides evidence that a key assumption in the theory of retrieval-induced forgetting, cue independence, might not consistently apply. These experiments underscore the need for both practical and theoretically motivated study of true and false memories.
Keywords: Retrieval-induced forgetting; DRM paradigm; False memories; Children; Cue-dependence; Delay

Hai-Minh Nguyen, Kiyoaki Shirai, Exploitation of Query Sentences Using Specific Weighting in Support-sentence Retrieval, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 22, 2013, Pages 132-141, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2013.09.089.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S187705091300882X)
Abstract: Abstract
Our goal is to develop a support-sentence retrieval system that retrieves sentences relevant to a given theme and then, classifies them into relevant types, such as agreement, contradiction, refinement, and supplement. This paper focuses on the first step, a sentence retrieval module. Lexical and typed dependency matching are used to compute the similarity between two sentences. A new query term weighting scheme based on the specificity of the terms is proposed and combined with ordinary IDF weighting for a better performance. Experimental results indicate that our method achieves 34% higher precision than the traditional TF-ISF method
Keywords: query weighting; sentence retrieval; information retrieval

Anne C. Krendl, Nalini Ambady, Elizabeth A. Kensinger, The dissociable effects of stereotype threat on older adults’ memory encoding and retrieval, Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition, Volume 4, Issue 2, June 2015, Pages 103-109, ISSN 2211-3681, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jarmac.2015.02.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211368115000170)
Abstract: Abstract
The present study asks how subliminal exposure to negative stereotypes about age-related memory deficits affects older adults’ memory performance. Whereas prior research has focused on the effect of “stereotype threat” on older adults’ memory for neutral material, the present study additionally examines the effect on memory for positive and negative words, as well as whether the subliminal “threat” has a larger impact on memory performance when it occurs prior to encoding or prior to retrieval (as compared to a control condition). Results revealed that older adults’ memory impairments were most pronounced when the threat was placed prior to retrieval as compared to when the threat was placed prior to encoding or no threat occurred. Moreover, the threat specifically increased false memory rates, particularly for neutral items compared to positive and negative ones. These results emphasize that stereotype threat effects vary depending upon the phase of memory it impacts.
Keywords: Stereotype threat; Aging; Emotional memory; Retrieval; Encoding

Denis R. Kasimov, Aleksandr V. Kuchuganov, Valeriy N. Kuchuganov, Individual strategies in the tasks of graphical retrieval of technical drawings, Journal of Visual Languages & Computing, Volume 28, June 2015, Pages 134-146, ISSN 1045-926X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvlc.2014.12.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1045926X14001736)
Abstract: Abstract
A designer׳s information need can have a lot of finer points not expressible completely by textual attributes or global aggregated image features. The purpose of the study is to develop a cognitive environment for content-based engineering drawing retrieval, allowing a user to concretize queries, to implement strategies that are most effective for the current search task. We propose meaningful customizable graphic search patterns, various comparison modes and visualization of matched elements. The presented experiments show that the approach yields good results in the sense of relevance and is comfortable in terms of controllability. The possibility to customize search patterns can result in improving retrieval precision by 10–15%. In practice, it can significantly increase the degree of automation of the design-reuse process.
Keywords: Technical drawing; Content-based retrieval; Matching graphs; Search strategy

Luca Pasolli, Sarah Asam, Mariapina Castelli, Lorenzo Bruzzone, Georg Wohlfahrt, Marc Zebisch, Claudia Notarnicola, Retrieval of Leaf Area Index in mountain grasslands in the Alps from MODIS satellite imagery, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 165, August 2015, Pages 159-174, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2015.04.027.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425715001698)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents an improved algorithm for the retrieval of Leaf Area Index (LAI) from Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) satellite imagery that has been specifically customized for mountain grasslands in the Alps. The main features of the proposed algorithm, which is based on the inversion of a radiative transfer model, are: i) a higher spatial resolution (250 m) with respect to the corresponding standard MODIS product and ii) tuning the model to the spectral characteristics of mountain grasslands.

To quantify the effects of the features of the proposed algorithm, the approach is first applied to a MODIS reflectance data time series from 2007 up-scaled to a 1 km spatial resolution for better comparison with the standard MODIS LAI product. In the next step, the benefit of the higher spatial resolution is assessed by applying the algorithm to a series of MODIS satellite images with a spatial resolution of 250 m acquired over the central Alps in the period 2005–2007. LAI estimates were validated for both temporal consistency and accuracy using ground measurement time series collected at three different study sites in the investigated area. The results obtained demonstrate the capability of the proposed algorithm to follow the expected temporal and range dynamics of LAI in this challenging environment, showing an overall RMSE accuracy of 1.68 (m2/m2). This approach thus opens a promising avenue for the exploitation of moderate resolution satellite data for novel and more accurate monitoring studies at a regional scale in mountain environments.
Keywords: Leaf Area Index (LAI); Biophysical parameter retrieval; Radiation transfer modeling; Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS); Mountain Grassland; Alps

Kehua Guo, Wei Pan, Mingming Lu, Xiaoke Zhou, Jianhua Ma, An effective and economical architecture for semantic-based heterogeneous multimedia big data retrieval, Journal of Systems and Software, Volume 102, April 2015, Pages 207-216, ISSN 0164-1212, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2014.09.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121214002040)
Abstract: Abstract
Data variety has been one of the most critical features for multimedia big data. Some multimedia documents, although in different data formats and storage structures, often express similar semantic information. Therefore, the way to manage and retrieve multimedia documents reflecting users’ intent in heterogeneous big data environments has become an important issue. In this paper, we present an effective and economical architecture named SHMR (Semantic-based Heterogeneous Multimedia Retrieval), which uses low cost to store and retrieve semantic information from heterogeneous multimedia data. Firstly, the particularity of heterogeneous multimedia retrieval in big data environments is addressed. Secondly, an approach to extract and represent semantic information for heterogeneous multimedia documents is proposed. Thirdly, a NoSQL-based approach to semantic storage, in which multimedia can be parallel processed in distributed nodes is provided. Finally, a MapReduce-based retrieval algorithm is presented and a user feedback supported scheme to achieve high retrieval precision and good user experience is designed. The experimental results indicate that the retrieval performance and economic efficiency of SHMR are suitable for multimedia information retrieval in heterogeneous big data environments.
Keywords: Heterogeneous multimedia; Semantic based retrieval; Big data

L. Rezac, A. Kutepov, J.M. Russell III, A.G. Feofilov, J. Yue, R.A. Goldberg, Simultaneous retrieval of T(p) and CO2 VMR from two-channel non-LTE limb radiances and application to daytime SABER/TIMED measurements, Journal of Atmospheric and Solar-Terrestrial Physics, Volumes 130–131, August 2015, Pages 23-42, ISSN 1364-6826, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jastp.2015.05.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364682615000954)
Abstract: Abstract
The kinetic temperature, Tk, and carbon dioxide, CO2 density, are key parameters that characterize the energetics and dynamics of the mesosphere and lower thermosphere (MLT) region. The Sounding of the Atmosphere using Broadband Emission Radiometry (SABER) instrument on-board the Thermosphere-Ionosphere-Mesosphere-Energetics and Dynamics (TIMED) satellite has been providing global, simultaneous measurements of limb radiance in 10 spectral channels continuously since late January 2002. In this paper we (1) present a methodology for a self-consistent simultaneous retrieval of temperature/pressure, Tk(p), and CO2 volume mixing ratio (VMR) from the broadband infrared limb measurements in the 15 and 4.3 μ m channels, and (2) qualitatively describe the first results on the CO2 VMR and Tk obtained from application of this technique to the SABER 15 and 4.3 μ m channels, including issues, which demand additional constraints to be applied.

The self-consistent two-channel retrieval architecture updates parameters at all altitudes simultaneously, and it is built upon iterative switching between two retrieval modules, one for CO2 and one for Tk. A detailed study of sensitivity, stability and convergence was carried out to validate the algorithm. The Tk/CO2 VMR distribution can be reliably retrieved without biases connected with this non-linear inverse problem starting with an initial guess as far as ±20% of CO2 VMR and ±15 K from the solution (as global shift, or somewhat larger if only local deviations are considered).

In polar summer toward high latitudes the retrieved CO2 VMR profile shows a local peak around 90 km. We discuss details of this feature and show that: (a) it is not an algorithm artifact or instability, (b) additional a priori constraints are needed in order to obtain a physical profile and to remove this peak, and (c) several possibilities are explored as to uncover the real cause of this feature, but no firm conclusion can be reached at this time.

This algorithm has been applied to all available daytime SABER measurements since 2002, and the first results of the mean CO2 VMR profiles and their distribution is discussed. In particular, the CO2 VMR profiles depart from a well mixed value at altitudes of 65–70 km during equinoxes at high and mid-latitudes, but in the summer hemisphere solstice period the SABER data is more consistent with a well mixed VMR conditions extend up to 87–90 km especially toward high latitudes.
Keywords: Mesospheric temperature; Composition; Retrieval; Inversion

Theodoros Giannakopoulos and Aggelos Pikrakis, Chapter 8 - Music Information Retrieval, In Introduction to Audio Analysis, Academic Press, Oxford, 2014, Pages 211-231, ISBN 9780080993881, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-08-099388-1.00008-X.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B978008099388100008X)
Abstract: Abstract
This chapter provides descriptions and implementations of some basic Music Information Retrieval tasks, so that the reader can gain a deeper understanding of the field. In particular, we focus on the tasks of music thumbnailing, meter/tempo induction and music content visualization.
Keywords: Music thumbnailing; Audio thumbnailing; Meter extraction; Tempo extraction; Self-similarity matrix; Content visualization; Dimensionality reduction; Self organizing maps; SOMs; Fisher linear discriminant; FLD; LDA; Principal component analysis; PCA

Emmanuel J. Candès, Xiaodong Li, Mahdi Soltanolkotabi, Phase retrieval from coded diffraction patterns, Applied and Computational Harmonic Analysis, Volume 39, Issue 2, September 2015, Pages 277-299, ISSN 1063-5203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acha.2014.09.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1063520314001201)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper considers the question of recovering the phase of an object from intensity-only measurements, a problem which naturally appears in X-ray crystallography and related disciplines. We study a physically realistic setup where one can modulate the signal of interest and then collect the intensity of its diffraction pattern, each modulation thereby producing a sort of coded diffraction pattern. We show that PhaseLift, a recent convex programming technique, recovers the phase information exactly from a number of random modulations, which is polylogarithmic in the number of unknowns. Numerical experiments with noiseless and noisy data complement our theoretical analysis and illustrate our approach.
Keywords: Phase retrieval; Diffraction; Fourier transform; Convex optimization; Random matrix theory

R. van der Schalie, R.M. Parinussa, L.J. Renzullo, A.I.J.M. van Dijk, C.-H. Su, R.A.M. de Jeu, SMOS soil moisture retrievals using the land parameter retrieval model: Evaluation over the Murrumbidgee Catchment, southeast Australia, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 163, 15 June 2015, Pages 70-79, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2015.03.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425715001029)
Abstract: Abstract
The land parameter retrieval model (LPRM) is a methodology that retrieves soil moisture from low frequency dual polarized microwave measurements and has been extensively tested on C-, X- and Ku-band frequencies. Its performance on L-band is tested here by using observations from the Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS) satellite. These observations have potential advantages compared to higher frequencies: a low sensitivity to cloud and vegetation contamination, an increased thermal sampling depth and a greater sensitivity to soil moisture fluctuations. These features make it desirable to add SMOS-derived soil moisture retrievals to the existing European Space Agency (ESA) long-term climatological soil moisture data record, to be harmonized with other passive microwave soil moisture estimates from the LPRM. For multi-channel observations, LPRM infers the effective soil temperature (Teff) from higher frequency channels. This is not possible for a single channel mission like SMOS and therefore two alternative sources for Teff were tested: (1) MERRA-Land and (2) ECMWF numerical weather prediction systems, respectively. SMOS measures brightness temperature at a range of incidence angles, different incidence angle bins (45°, 52.5° and 60°) were tested for both ascending and descending swaths. Three LPRM algorithm parameters were optimized to match remotely sensed soil moisture with ground based observations: the single scattering albedo, roughness and polarization mixing factor. The soil moisture retrievals were optimized and evaluated against ground-based data from the Murrumbidgee Soil Moisture Monitoring Network (OzNet) in southeast Australia. The agreement with single-angle SMOS LPRM retrievals was close to the official SMOS L3 product, provided the three parameters were optimized for the OzNet dataset, with linear correlation of 0.70–0.75 (0.75–0.77 for SMOS L3), root-mean-square error of 0.069–0.085 m3 m− 3 (0.084–0.106 m3 m− 3 for SMOS L3) and small bias of − 0.02–0.01 m3 m− 3 (0.03–0.06 m3 m− 3 for SMOS L3). These results suggest that the LPRM can be applied successfully to single-angle SMOS L-band observations, but further testing is required to determine if the same set of parameters can be used in other geographic areas.
Keywords: Remote sensing; Passive microwave radiometry; Soil moisture; Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS); Land parameter retrieval model (LPRM)

Fatahiyah Mohd Anuar, Rossitza Setchi, Yu-Kun Lai, A Conceptual Model of Trademark Retrieval based on Conceptual Similarity, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 22, 2013, Pages 450-459, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2013.09.123.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050913009162)
Abstract: Abstract
The rapid expansion of e-commerce at the beginning of 21st century has had a significant impact on intellectual property management. A particular area of concern is the misuse of trademarks and trademark protection. Trademarks are proprietary words and images with high reputational value; they are important assets, often used as a marketing tool, which require infringement protection. One of the issues considered during infringement litigation is the visual, conceptual and phonetic similarity of different trademarks. In particular, the conceptual similarity of trademarks is an area never previously studied in information retrieval. This paper focuses on this important aspect by proposing a conceptual model of the comparison process, aimed at retrieving conceptually similar trademarks. The proposed model employs natural language processing and semantic technology to compute the conceptual similarity between trademarks.
Keywords: trademark infringement; trademark retrieval; information retrieval; semantic technology; semantic similarity

E.G. Karakasis, A. Amanatiadis, A. Gasteratos, S.A. Chatzichristofis, Image moment invariants as local features for content based image retrieval using the Bag-of-Visual-Words model, Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 55, 1 April 2015, Pages 22-27, ISSN 0167-8655, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2015.01.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167865515000239)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents an image retrieval framework that uses affine image moment invariants as descriptors of local image areas. Detailed feature vectors are generated by feeding the produced moments into a Bag-of-Visual-Words representation. Image moment invariants have been selected for their compact representation of image areas as well as due to their ability to remain unchanged under affine image transformations. Three different setups were examined in order to evaluate and discuss the overall approach. The retrieval results are promising compared with other widely used local descriptors, allowing the proposed framework to serve as a reference point for future image moment local descriptors applied to the general task of content based image retrieval.
Keywords: Bag of visual words; Affine moment invariants; Content based image retrieval

Mareike Clos, Ulrike Schwarze, Sebastian Gluth, Nico Bunzeck, Tobias Sommer, Goal- and retrieval-dependent activity in the striatum during memory recognition, Neuropsychologia, Volume 72, June 2015, Pages 1-11, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2015.04.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393215001578)
Abstract: Abstract
The striatum has been associated with successful memory retrieval but the precise functional link still remains unclear. One hypothesis is that striatal activity reflects an active evaluation process of the retrieval outcome dependent on the current behavioral goals rather than being a consequence of memory reactivation. We have recently shown that the striatum also correlates with confidence in memory recognition, which could reflect high subjective value ascribed to high certainty decisions. To examine whether striatal activity during memory recognition reflects subjective value indeed, we conducted an fMRI study using a recognition memory paradigm in which the participants rated not only the recognition confidence but also indicated the pleasantness associated with the previous memory retrieval. The results demonstrated a high positive correlation between confidence and pleasantness both on the behavioral and brain activation level particularly in the striatum. As almost all of variance in the striatal confidence signal could be explained by experienced pleasantness, this part of the striatal memory recognition response probably corresponds to greater subjective value of high confidence responses. While perceived oldness was also strongly correlated with striatal activity, this activation pattern was clearly distinct from that associated with confidence and pleasantness and thus could not be explained by higher subjective value to detect “old” items. Together, these results show that at least two independent processes contribute to striatal activation in recognition memory: a more flexible evaluation response dependent on context and goals captured by memory confidence and a potentially retrieval-related response captured by perceived oldness.
Keywords: fMRI; Confidence; Metamemory; Perceived oldness; Retrieval success; Subjective value

Analia Sicardi-Segade, Amalia Martínez-García, Noel-Ivan Toto-Arellano, J.A. Rayas, Analysis of the fringes visibility generated by a lateral cyclic shear interferometer in the retrieval of the three-dimensional surface information of an object, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 125, Issue 3, February 2014, Pages 1320-1324, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2013.08.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402613011741)
Abstract: Abstract
We report the evaluation of the topography of an object with projected fringes generated with a lateral cyclic shear interferometer (CSI) and we then compare the topography recovery obtained with the proposed method with the one obtained from a coordinate measuring machine (CMM). We also study how the fringes visibility along the z axis affects the retrieval. Finally, we discuss the advantages and drawbacks of this profilometry system.
Keywords: Optical metrology; Projected fringes; Fringes visibility; Interferometry; Lateral cyclic shear interferometer

Zhi Li, Xionghui Zhou, Wei Liu, A geometric reasoning approach to hierarchical representation for B-rep model retrieval, Computer-Aided Design, Volume 62, May 2015, Pages 190-202, ISSN 0010-4485, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cad.2014.05.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S001044851400102X)
Abstract: Abstract
3D solid model similarity is dependency of many intelligent design applications, such as design reuse, part management, case-based reasoning, and cost estimation. Matching and comparing its intrinsic boundary representation (B-rep) is a critical issue to retrieval. In this paper, we proposed a geometric reasoning approach to generate hierarchy for B-rep model retrieval. We extracted the winged-edge data structure to support series algorithms for underlying geometric reasoning, which is mainly composed of 3 steps to build hierarchy: partitioning, assembling and simplifying. This hierarchical representation is featured with level of detail ( L O D ) retaining geometric and topological information which is proved to be efficient in both global and partial retrieval. Our approach is based on the standard for the exchange of product information ( S T E P ) , which is suitable for data exchange between heterogeneous CAD systems. The result of case studies from prototype implementation demonstrates its effectiveness and efficiency.
Keywords: Geometric reasoning; Hierarchical representation; Solid model retrieval

Y. Liang, M.C. Fairhurst, R.M. Guest, A synthesised word approach to word retrieval in handwritten documents, Pattern Recognition, Volume 45, Issue 12, December 2012, Pages 4225-4236, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2012.05.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320312002701)
Abstract: Recent technological advances have enhanced the computer-based indexing and searching of digitised printed books. The performance now achievable in this domain, however, does not at present extend to handwritten texts which inherently contain more significant letter-based variation within their content. Furthermore, in most studies that address the handwritten text retrieval problem, a large training dataset is required which, very often, influences the context and search lexicon. In this paper a novel method is described to overcome the training data problem using a character-based modelling (termed grapheme spectrum) approach and a word modelling technique (termed synthesised word) enabling the retrieval of keywords that have not explicitly been seen in the training set. When tested on an illustrative historical manuscript the performance of the proposed word retrieval technique shows a clear advantage over existing methods.
Keywords: Handwriting analysis; Digital archives; Handwritten word retrieval; Word spotting; Information retrieval; Handwriting recognition; Historical manuscript analysis

M. Méndez-Couz, N.M. Conejo, H. González-Pardo, J.L. Arias, Functional interactions between dentate gyrus, striatum and anterior thalamic nuclei on spatial memory retrieval, Brain Research, Volume 1605, 24 April 2015, Pages 59-69, ISSN 0006-8993, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2015.02.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899315000852)
Abstract: Abstract
The standard model of memory system consolidation supports the temporal reorganization of brain circuits underlying long-term memory storage, including interactions between the dorsal hippocampus and extra-hippocampal structures. In addition, several brain regions have been suggested to be involved in the retrieval of spatial memory. In particular, several authors reported a possible role of the ventral portion of the hippocampus together with the thalamus or the striatum in the persistence of this type of memory. Accordingly, the present study aimed to evaluate the contribution of different cortical and subcortical brain regions, and neural networks involved in spatial memory retrieval. For this purpose, we used cytochrome c oxidase quantitative histochemistry as a reliable method to measure brain oxidative metabolism. Animals were trained in a hidden platform task and tested for memory retention immediately after the last training session; one week after completing the task, they were also tested in a memory retrieval probe. Results showed that retrieval of the previously learned task was associated with increased levels of oxidative metabolism in the prefrontal cortex, the dorsal and ventral striatum, the anterodorsal thalamic nucleus and the dentate gyrus of the dorsal and ventral hippocampus. The analysis of functional interactions between brain regions suggest that the dorsal and ventral dentate gyrus could be involved in spatial memory retrieval. In addition, the results highlight the key role of the extended hippocampal system, thalamus and striatum in this process. Our study agrees with previous ones reporting interactions between the dorsal hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex during spatial memory retrieval. Furthermore, novel activation patterns of brain networks involving the aforementioned regions were found. These functional brain networks could underlie spatial memory retrieval evaluated in the Morris water maze task.
Keywords: Spatial memory retrieval; Cytochrome c oxidase; Brain network; Dentate gyrus; Thalamus; Extended hippocampal system

Maryam Habibi, Parvaz Mahdabi, Andrei Popescu-Belis, Question answering in conversations: Query refinement using contextual and semantic information, Data & Knowledge Engineering, Volume 106, November 2016, Pages 38-51, ISSN 0169-023X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2016.06.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X16300489)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper introduces a query refinement method applied to questions asked by users to a system during a meeting or a conversation that they have with other users. To answer the questions, the proposed method leverages the local context of the conversation along with semantic resources, either WordNet or word embeddings from word2vec. The method first represents the local context by extracting keywords from the transcript of the conversation, which is obtained from a real-time Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) system and may contain noise. It then expands the queries with keywords that best represent the topic of the query, i.e. expansion keywords accompanied by weights indicating their topical similarity to the query. Finally, semantically related terms are added, using two options: either synonymous terms drawn from WordNet or similar words based on distributed representations in a low-dimensional word embedding space learned using word2vec. To evaluate the system, we introduce a dataset (named AREX for AMI Requests for Explanations) and an evaluation metric based on relevance judgments collected by crowdsourcing. We compare our query expansion approach with other methods, over queries from the AREX dataset, showing the superiority of our method when either manual or automatic transcripts of the AMI Meeting Corpus are used.
Keywords: Query refinement; Query expansion; Context modeling; Speech-based information retrieval; Evaluation of information retrieval

Gerrit de Leeuw, Thomas Holzer-Popp, Suzanne Bevan, William H. Davies, Jacques Descloitres, Roy G. Grainger, Jan Griesfeller, Andreas Heckel, Stefan Kinne, Lars Klüser, Pekka Kolmonen, Pavel Litvinov, Dmytro Martynenko, Peter North, Bertrand Ovigneur, Nicolas Pascal, Caroline Poulsen, Didier Ramon, Michael Schulz, Richard Siddans, Larisa Sogacheva, Didier Tanré, Gareth E. Thomas, Timo H. Virtanen, Wolfgang von Hoyningen Huene, Marco Vountas, Simon Pinnock, Evaluation of seven European aerosol optical depth retrieval algorithms for climate analysis, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 162, 1 June 2015, Pages 295-315, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2013.04.023.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425713003507)
Abstract: Abstract
Satellite data are increasingly used to provide observation-based estimates of the effects of aerosols on climate. The Aerosol-cci project, part of the European Space Agency's Climate Change Initiative (CCI), was designed to provide essential climate variables for aerosols from satellite data. Eight algorithms, developed for the retrieval of aerosol properties using data from AATSR (4), MERIS (3) and POLDER, were evaluated to determine their suitability for climate studies. The primary result from each of these algorithms is the aerosol optical depth (AOD) at several wavelengths, together with the Ångström exponent (AE) which describes the spectral variation of the AOD for a given wavelength pair. Other aerosol parameters which are possibly retrieved from satellite observations are not considered in this paper. The AOD and AE (AE only for Level 2) were evaluated against independent collocated observations from the ground-based AERONET sun photometer network and against “reference” satellite data provided by MODIS and MISR. Tools used for the evaluation were developed for daily products as produced by the retrieval with a spatial resolution of 10 × 10 km2 (Level 2) and daily or monthly aggregates (Level 3). These tools include statistics for L2 and L3 products compared with AERONET, as well as scoring based on spatial and temporal correlations. In this paper we describe their use in a round robin (RR) evaluation of four months of data, one month for each season in 2008. The amount of data was restricted to only four months because of the large effort made to improve the algorithms, and to evaluate the improvement and current status, before larger data sets will be processed. Evaluation criteria are discussed. Results presented show the current status of the European aerosol algorithms in comparison to both AERONET and MODIS and MISR data. The comparison leads to a preliminary conclusion that the scores are similar, including those for the references, but the coverage of AATSR needs to be enhanced and further improvements are possible for most algorithms. None of the algorithms, including the references, outperforms all others everywhere. AATSR data can be used for the retrieval of AOD and AE over land and ocean. PARASOL and one of the MERIS algorithms have been evaluated over ocean only and both algorithms provide good results.
Keywords: Aerosol retrieval algorithms; Aerosol optical depth; AATSR; MERIS; PARASOL

Bin Wang, Douglas Brown, Yongsheng Gao, John La Salle, MARCH: Multiscale-arch-height description for mobile retrieval of leaf images, Information Sciences, Volume 302, 1 May 2015, Pages 132-148, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2014.07.028.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025514007282)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we propose a novel shape description method for mobile retrieval of leaf images. In this method, termed multiscale arch height (MARCH), hierarchical arch height features at different chord spans are extracted from each contour point to provide a compact, multiscale shape descriptor. Both the global and detailed features of the leaf shape can be effectively captured by the proposed algorithm. MARCH descriptors are compared using a simple L1-norm based dissimilarity measurement providing very fast shape matching. The algorithm has been tested on four publicly available leaf image datasets including the Swedish leaf dataset, the Flavia leaf dataset, the ICL leaf dataset and the scanned subset of the ImageCLEF leaf dataset. The experiments indicate that the proposed method can achieve a higher classification rate and retrieval accuracy than the state-of-the-art benchmarks with a more than 500 times faster retrieval speed. A mobile retrieval system embedding the proposed algorithms has been developed for the real application of leaf image retrieval.
Keywords: Plant identification; Shape description; Shape matching; Leaf image retrieval; Mobile leaf identification

Sonia Bonnì, Domenica Veniero, Chiara Mastropasqua, Viviana Ponzo, Carlo Caltagirone, Marco Bozzali, Giacomo Koch, TMS evidence for a selective role of the precuneus in source memory retrieval, Behavioural Brain Research, Volume 282, 1 April 2015, Pages 70-75, ISSN 0166-4328, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbr.2014.12.032.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166432814008286)
Abstract: Abstract
The posteromedial cortex including the precuneus (PC) is thought to be involved in episodic memory retrieval. Here we used continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) to disentangle the role of the precuneus in the recognition memory process in a sample of healthy subjects. During the encoding phase, subjects were presented with a series of colored pictures. Afterwards, during the retrieval phase, all previously presented items and a sample of new pictures were presented in black, and subjects were asked to indicate whether each item was new or old, and in the latter case to indicate the associated color. cTBS was delivered over PC, posterior parietal cortex (PPC) and vertex before the retrieval phase. The data were analyzed in terms of hits, false alarms, source errors and omissions. cTBS over the precuneus, but not over the PPC or the vertex, induced a selective decrease in source memory errors, indicating an improvement in context retrieval. All the other accuracy measurements were unchanged. These findings suggest a direct implication of the precuneus in successful context-dependent retrieval.
Keywords: Precuneus; Continuous theta burst stimulation; Source memory; Retrieval

A. Iruetaguena, J.J. Garcia Adeva, J.M. Pikatza, U. Segundo, D. Buenestado, R. Barrena, Automatic retrieval of current evidence to support update of bibliography in clinical guidelines, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 40, Issue 6, May 2013, Pages 2081-2091, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2012.10.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417412011293)
Abstract: This paper reports on a system developed to support medical experts in the process of updating clinical guidelines by automatically suggesting new articles suitable to the domain under consideration. It follows a comprehensive process based on several consecutive steps in order to (i) identify which articles from the current guideline are eligible to be updated; (ii) retrieve and filter new related articles from medline; and (iii) select the most relevant resulting articles by applying a scoring algorithm. Extensive validation is based on a set of experiments on 40 guidelines from multiple medical domains. The analysis of results shows a promising prospect as indicated by recall values greater than 90%.
Keywords: Clinical guidelines; Evidence-based medicine; Bibliometrics; Information retrieval; Literature-based discovery

Anuja khodaskar, Siddarth Ladhake, New-Fangled Alignment of Ontologies for Content Based Semantic Image Retrieval, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 48, 2015, Pages 298-303, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.04.185.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915006948)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper highlights content based image retrieval system using alignment of ontologies. The traditional contents-based image retrieval systems using single ontology retrieve imprecise images. To overcome this weakness, proposed image retrieval system designed using core semantic multiple ontology which merges feature ontology, semantic feature ontology, user ontology and metadata ontology. Proposed content based image retrieval system reduce semantic gap and provides highly accurate, efficient and effective image retrieval result.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval; Domain ontology; Metadata ontology; Multiple ontology; Semantic gap

Ulrike Rimmele, Luciana Besedovsky, Tanja Lange, Jan Born, Emotional memory can be persistently weakened by suppressing cortisol during retrieval, Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, Volume 119, March 2015, Pages 102-107, ISSN 1074-7427, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nlm.2015.01.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S107474271500026X)
Abstract: Abstract
Cortisol’s effects on memory follow an inverted U-shaped function such that memory retrieval is impaired with very low concentrations, presumably due to insufficient activation of high-affine mineralocorticoid receptors (MR), or with very high concentrations, due to predominant low-affine glucocorticoid receptor (GR) activation. Through corresponding changes in re-encoding, the retrieval effect of cortisol might translate into a persistent change of the retrieved memory. We tested whether partial suppression of morning cortisol synthesis by metyrapone, leading to intermediate, circadian nadir-like levels with presumed predominant MR activation, improves retrieval, particularly of emotional memory, and persistently changes the memory. In a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, within-subject cross-over design, 18 men were orally administered metyrapone (1 g) vs. placebo at 4:00 AM to suppress the morning cortisol rise. Retrieval of emotional and neutral texts and pictures (learned 3 days earlier) was assessed 4 h after substance administration and a second time one week later. Metyrapone suppressed endogenous cortisol release to circadian nadir-equivalent levels at the time of retrieval testing. Contrary to our expectations, metyrapone significantly impaired free recall of emotional texts (p &lt; .05), whereas retrieval of neutral texts or pictures remained unaffected. One week later, participants still showed lower memory for emotional texts in the metyrapone than placebo condition (p &lt; .05). Our finding that suppressing morning cortisol to nadir-like concentrations not only impairs acute retrieval, but also persistently weakens emotional memories corroborates the concept that retrieval effects of cortisol produce persistent memory changes, possibly by affecting re-encoding.
Keywords: Cortisol; Suppression; Metyrapone; Memory; Retrieval; Recall

Anneliese D. Heiner, Karen M. Kruger, Nishant M. Tikekar, John J. Callaghan, John J. Lannutti, Thomas D. Brown, THA Retrievals: The Need to Mark the Anatomic Orientation of the Femoral Head, The Journal of Arthroplasty, Volume 30, Issue 6, June 2015, Pages 1089-1094, ISSN 0883-5403, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arth.2015.01.030.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0883540315000455)
Abstract: Abstract
The hypothesis of this study was that the rotational orientation of femoral head damage would greatly affect the volumetric wear rate of the opposing polyethylene (PE) liner. Damage on twenty retrieved cobalt–chromium femoral heads was simulated in a validated damage-feature-based finite element model. For each individual retrieval, the anatomic orientation of the femoral head about the femoral neck axis was systematically varied, in 30° increments. The PE wear rate differential between the maximum- versus minimum-wear orientations was often sizable, as high as 7-fold. Knowing the correct femoral head anatomic orientation is therefore important when analyzing the effects of femoral head damage on PE liner wear. Surgeons retrieving modular femoral heads should routinely mark the anatomic orientation of those components.
Keywords: damage; femoral head; finite element analysis; retrieval analysis; total hip arthroplasty; wear

Vladimir B. Balakirsky and Anahit R. Ghazaryan, Chapter 15 - Algebraic Approaches to a Network-Type Private Information Retrieval, In Emerging Trends in ICT Security, Morgan Kaufmann, Boston, 2014, Pages 245-252, ISBN 9780124114746, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-411474-6.00015-3.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780124114746000153)
Abstract: We propose a network-type scheme of private information retrieval, presented as a modification of the conventional setup, where the user is replaced with two users, the user-sender and the user-receiver. As a result of communication, the user-receiver becomes informed about the bit located at a certain position of the database, owned by the servers. Each server receives a query from the user-sender that contains information about the position in a hidden form and the server cannot disclose this position. On the basis of the query and the database, each server forms the replica, which is then transmitted to the user-receiver. By combining replicas, the user-receiver decodes the retrieved bit. We present a simple algebraic scheme where the communication complexity and the computational complexity are expressed as functions of the logarithm of the database size. The approaches allow extensions to the one-server scheme, the multi-scheme with noisy replicas of a fixed number of servers, and the authentication of a certain fragment of the database.
Keywords: privacy; cryptography; networking; encoding; decoding

John Atkinson, Gonzalo Salas, Alejandro Figueroa, Improving opinion retrieval in social media by combining features-based coreferencing and memory-based learning, Information Sciences, Volume 299, 1 April 2015, Pages 20-31, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2014.12.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025514011608)
Abstract: Abstract
Social networks messaging typically contains a lot of implicit linguistic information partially due to restrictions on a message’s length (i.e., few named entities, short sentences, no discourse structure, etc.). This may significantly impact several applications including opinion mining, sentiment analysis, etc., as data collection tasks such as opinion retrieval tasks will fail to obtain all the relevant messages whenever the target topic, objects, or features are not explicit within the texts. In order to address these issues, in this paper a novel adaptive approach for opinion retrieval is proposed. It combines natural-language co-referencing techniques, features-based linguistic preprocessing and memory-based learning to resolving implicit co-referencing within informal opinion texts by using underlying hierarchies of thread messages. Experiments were conducted to assess the ability of the model to improve opinion retrieval by resolving implicit entities and features, showing the promise of our opinion retrieval approach when compared to state-of-the-art methods using text data from social networks.
Keywords: Opinion retrieval; Memory-based learning; Linguistic coreferencing; Text mining; Natural language processing; Opinion mining

Raziyeh Mohammadkhani, Niloufar Darbandi, Abbas Ali Vafaei, Ali Ahmadalipour, Ali Rashidy-Pour, Glucocorticoid-induced impairment of long-term memory retrieval in female rats: Influences of estrous cycle and estrogen, Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, Volume 118, February 2015, Pages 209-215, ISSN 1074-7427, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nlm.2014.12.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1074742714002251)
Abstract: Abstract
Using an inhibitory avoidance (IA) task, the effects of glucocorticoids on memory retrieval in intact and ovariectomized (OVX) female rats were investigated. Young adult female rats were trained in a one trial IA task (1-mA, 3-s footshock). The latency to reenter the dark compartment of the apparatus was recorded in the retention test performed 48 h after training. Pre-retrieval injection of corticosterone (CORT, 1, 3, and 10 mg/kg) to OVX rats impaired memory retrieval at all doses tested. Similar administration of CORT (3 mg/kg) in intact female rats impaired memory retrieval in the estrus phase (when endogenous plasma levels of estrogen are low) but not in the proestrus phase (when endogenous levels of estrogen are high). Concurrent administration of CORT (3 mg/kg) and 17-β-estradiol (15 μg/kg) in both proestrus and estrous phases impaired memory retrieval. Our findings indicate that the effects of corticosterone on memory retrieval are modulated by the estrous cycle and 17-β-estradiol.
Keywords: Corticosterone; Estrous cycle; Memory retrieval; Inhibitory avoidance task

Benjamin C. Storm, Genna Angello, Dorothy R. Buchli, Rebecca H. Koppel, Jeri L. Little, John F. Nestojko, Chapter Five - A Review of Retrieval-Induced Forgetting in the Contexts of Learning, Eyewitness Memory, Social Cognition, Autobiographical Memory, and Creative Cognition, In: BRIAN H. ROSS, Editor(s), Psychology of Learning and Motivation, Academic Press, 2015, Volume 62, Pages 141-194, ISSN 0079-7421, ISBN 9780128022733, https://doi.org/10.1016/bs.plm.2014.09.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0079742114000061)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieving information from memory can cause the forgetting of other information in memory, a phenomenon referred to as retrieval-induced forgetting. Over the past 20 years, retrieval-induced forgetting has been observed in a variety of experimental contexts and has been argued to impact a number of cognitive and psychological processes. Not simply a laboratory phenomenon, retrieval-induced forgetting appears to have important implications for furthering our basic understanding of memory and behavior. In the present chapter, we provide a selective review of retrieval-induced forgetting in five contexts—learning and education, eyewitness memory, social cognition, autobiographical memory, and creative cognition—and discuss the importance of studying retrieval-induced forgetting in situations beyond the typical retrieval-practice paradigm.
Keywords: Autobiographical memory; Creative cognition; Eyewitness memory; Memory; Retrieval-induced forgetting; Social cognition; Testing effects

Anuja khodaskar, Siddarth Ladhake, Promising Large Scale Image Retrieval by Using Intelligent Semantic Binary Code Generation Technique, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 48, 2015, Pages 282-287, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.04.183.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915006924)
Abstract: Abstract
A scalable content based image retrieval system for large-scale www database is designed and implemented. Million images on internet is big challenge for accurate and efficient image retrieval as per user requirement. Proposed system exploits semantic binary code generation techniques with semantic hashing function, fine and coarse similarity measure technique, automatic and manual relevance feedback technique which improve accuracy, speed of image retrieval. With dramatic growth of internet technology, scalable image retrieval system is a need of recent web based image retrieval applications such as biomedical imaging, medical diagnosis, space science application etc. Proposed system accomplish requirement of scalable, accurate and swift image retrieval system. Experimental result clearly shows that performance of image retrieval is improved in term of accuracy, efficiency and retrieval time.
Keywords: Accuracy; Content based image retrieval; Hashing function; Large scale database; Retrieval time; Web based image retrieval

Qianghuai Jia, Xinmei Tian, Query difficulty estimation via relevance prediction for image retrieval, Signal Processing, Volume 110, May 2015, Pages 232-243, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2014.07.018.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168414003521)
Abstract: Abstract
Query difficulty estimation (QDE) attempts to automatically predict the performance of the search results returned for a given query. QDE has long been of interest in text retrieval. However, few research works have been conducted in image retrieval. Existing QDE methods in image retrieval mainly explore the statistical characteristics (coherence, specificity, etc.) of the returned images to derive a value for indicating the query difficulty degree. To the best of our knowledge, little research has been done to directly estimate the real search performance, such as average precision. In this paper, we propose a novel query difficulty estimation approach which automatically estimates the average precision of the image search results. Specifically, we first adaptively select a set of query relevant and query irrelevant images for each query via modified pseudo relevance feedback. Then a simple but effective voting scheme and two estimation methods (hard estimation and soft estimation) are proposed to estimate the relevance probability of each image in the search results. Based on the images׳ relevance probabilities, the average precision for each query is derived. The experimental results on two benchmark image search datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Keywords: Query difficulty estimation; Image retrieval; Average precision; Pseudo relevance feedback; Voting scheme

Peng Lu, Xujun Peng, Xinshan Zhu, Ruifan Li, Finding more relevance: Propagating similarity on Markov random field for object retrieval, Signal Processing: Image Communication, Volume 32, March 2015, Pages 54-68, ISSN 0923-5965, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.image.2015.01.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923596515000168)
Abstract: Abstract
To retrieve objects from large corpus with high accuracy is a challenging task. In this paper, we propose a Markov random field (MRF) based probabilistic retrieval framework. In this framework, the similarities between the query image and dataset images are modeled as the likelihood and the relationships among the images in the dataset are modeled as the prior. Then, the prior and the likelihood are combined to improve retrieval performance. Further, we present an approximate belief propagation algorithm as well as a subgraph extraction algorithm for efficient inference in MRF. Finally, we design a new image retrieval system under our framework. This system can be considered as an extended bag-of-visual-words retrieval system with the probabilistic based re-ranking module. We evaluate our method on three standard datasets: Oxford-5K, Oxford-105K and Paris-6K. The experimental results show that the proposed system significantly improves the retrieval accuracy on these datasets and exceeds the state-of-the-art results.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Bag-of-visual-words; Markov random field

Wenbing Chen, Qizhou Li, Keshav Dahal, ROI image retrieval based on multiple features of mean shift and expectation–maximisation, Digital Signal Processing, Volume 40, May 2015, Pages 117-130, ISSN 1051-2004, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dsp.2015.01.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1051200415000238)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, a novel region of interest (ROI) query method is proposed for image retrieval by combining a mean shift tracking (MST) algorithm and an improved expectation–maximisation (EM)-like (IEML) method. In the proposed combination, the MST is used to seek the initial location of the target candidate model and then IEML is used to adaptively change the location and scale of the target candidate model to include the relevant region and exclude the irrelevant region as far as possible. In order to improve the performance and effectiveness using IEML to track the target candidate model, a new similarity measure is built based on spatial and colour features and a new image retrieval framework for this new environment is proposed. Extensive experiments confirm that compared with the latest developed approaches, such as the generalized Hough transform (GHT) and EM-like tracking methods, our method can provide a much better performance in effectiveness. On the other hand, for the IEML, the new similarity measure model also substantially decreases computational complexity and improves the precision tracking of the target candidate model. Compared with the conventional ROI-based image retrieval methods, the most significant highlight is that the proposed method can directly find the target candidate model in the candidate image without pre-segmentation in advance.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Mean shift; EM; Colour histogram; Spatial distribution

Lisa H. Evans, Angharad N. Williams, Edward L. Wilding, Electrophysiological evidence for retrieval mode immediately after a task switch, NeuroImage, Volume 108, March 2015, Pages 435-440, ISSN 1053-8119, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.12.068.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811914010738)
Abstract: Abstract
It has been suggested that retrieving episodic information can involve adopting a cognitive state or set: retrieval mode. In a series of studies, an event-related potential (ERP) index of retrieval mode has been identified in designs which cue participants on a trial-by-trial basis to switch between preparing for and then completing an episodic or non-episodic retrieval task. However, a confound in these studies is that along with task type the content of what is to be retrieved has varied. Here we examined whether the ERP index of retrieval mode remains when the contents of an episodic and non-episodic task are highly similar – both requiring a location judgement. In the episodic task participants indicated the screen location where words had been shown in a prior study phase (left/right/new); whereas in the perceptual task they indicated the current screen location of the word (top/middle/bottom). Consistent with previous studies the ERPs elicited while participants prepared for episodic retrieval were more positive-going at right-frontal sites than when they prepared for the perceptual task. This index was observed, however, on the first trial after participants had switched tasks, rather than on the second trial, as has been observed previously. Potential reasons for this are discussed, including the critical manipulation of similarity in contents between tasks, as well as the use of a predictable cue sequence.
Keywords: Retrieval mode; Episodic memory; Task-switching; Event-related potentials (ERPs); Task-set; Retrieval preparation

Julia H. Coyne, Jacquelyn M. Borg, John DeLuca, Leslie Glass, James F. Sumowski, Retrieval Practice as an Effective Memory Strategy in Children and Adolescents With Traumatic Brain Injury, Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Volume 96, Issue 4, April 2015, Pages 742-745, ISSN 0003-9993, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apmr.2014.09.022.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0003999314011290)
Abstract: AbstractObjective
To investigate whether retrieval practice (RP) is a more effective memory strategy than restudy in children and adolescents with traumatic brain injury (TBI).
Design
Three × two within-subjects experiment: 3 (learning condition: massed restudy [MR], spaced restudy [SR], retrieval practice [RP]) × 2 (stimulus type: verbal paired associates [VPAs] and face-name pairs [FNPs]). The dependent measure was delayed recall of VPAs and FNPs.
Setting
Subacute pediatric neurorehabilitation center.
Participants
Pediatric survivors of TBI (N=15) aged 8 to 16 years with below-average memory.
Intervention
During RP, participants were quizzed on to-be-learned information (VPAs and FNPs) shortly after it was presented, such that they practiced retrieval during the learning phase. MR consisted of repeated restudy (tantamount to cramming). SR consisted of restudy trials separated in time (ie, distributed learning).
Main Outcome Measures
Delayed recall of 24 VPAs and 24 FNPs after a 25-minute delay. VPAs and FNPs were equally divided across 3 learning conditions (16 per condition).
Results
There was a large main effect of learning condition on delayed recall (P&lt;.001; ηp2=.84), with better mean recall of VPAs and FNPs studied through RP (6.23±1.39) relative to MR (3.60±1.53; P&lt;.001) and SR (4.77±1.39; P&lt;.001). Moreover, RP was the single best learning strategy for every participant.
Conclusions
Memory problems and related academic learning difficulties are common after pediatric TBI. Herein, we identify RP as a promising and simple strategy to support learning and improve memory in children and adolescents with TBI. Our experimental findings were quite robust and set the stage for subsequent randomized controlled trials of RP in pediatric TBI.
Keyword: Memory; Rehabilitation; Testing effect; Traumatic brain injury

Nadiah Yusof, Tengku Siti Meriam Tengku Wook, Siti Fadzilah Mat Noor, Songket Motives Retrieval through Sketching Technique, Procedia Technology, Volume 11, 2013, Pages 263-271, ISSN 2212-0173, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.protcy.2013.12.190.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212017313003447)
Abstract: Abstract
Songket is an iconic Malay arts heritage with strong history essence. The fine weave that made up the songket texture is what make it stand out from the rest of the fabric. Literature study showed more than 300 songket motives had been produced since the beginning and was stored digitally as preservation effort. Preliminary studies on 10 websites that promote and trade songket in Malaysia reveal that preservation of the motive was not a priority since they only stress on the selling of the product. The website only provides a keyword search for the customer to find songket based on their finished motives. Biggest drawback is the user didn’t aware of the abundance of motive; hence making the search less effective. Previous study also shows there is no website that provide repository of songket motives information as a long term preservation effort. This research will focus on information gathering and imaging access of songket motives through sketching technique. Method of study is by analysing existing songket website and image access technique. Result of the research will be a prototype of songket motive repository system which will help user to access the motive through sketching technique.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Information Retrieval; Songket Motif

G. Wiselin Jiji, P. Johnson DuraiRaj, Content-based image retrieval techniques for the analysis of dermatological lesions using particle swarm optimization technique, Applied Soft Computing, Volume 30, May 2015, Pages 650-662, ISSN 1568-4946, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2015.01.058.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494615000794)
Abstract: Abstract
This method presents extraction of effective color and shape features for the analysis of dermatology images. We employ three phases of operation in order to perform efficient retrieval of images of skin lesions. Our proposed algorithm used color and shape feature vectors and the features are normalized using Min–Max normalization. Particle swarm optimization (PSO) technique for multi-class classification is used to converge the search space more efficiently. The results using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve proved that the proposed architecture is highly contributed to computer-aided diagnosis of skin lesions. Experiments on a set of 1450 images yielded a specificity of 98.22% and a sensitivity of 94%. Our empirical evaluation has a superior retrieval and diagnosis performance when compared to the performance of other works. We present explicit combinations of feature vectors corresponding to healthy and lesion skin.
Keywords: Retrieval; Features; Classification; Particle swarm optimization

Asaf Gilboa, Retrieval, In International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences (Second Edition), edited by James D. Wright,, Elsevier, Oxford, 2015, Pages 608-612, ISBN 9780080970875, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-08-097086-8.51057-5.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780080970868510575)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieval refers to a set of processes that support the recovery of stored memories. At its heart is the ecphoric process that involves an interaction between memory cues and memory traces, and the conversion of ecphoric information into conscious awareness. Retrieval also involves a set of preecphoric processes that support the search for appropriate memory cues and memory traces, and a set of postecphoric monitoring and control processes that evaluate the veracity and appropriateness of retrieved memories and endorse report decisions.
Keywords: Cue description; Direct retrieval; Ecphory; Encoding specificity; Engram; Feeling of knowing; Feeling of rightness; Generate-recognize; Levels of processing; Memory cue; Memory trace; Retrieval mode; Source-constrained retrieval; Source monitoring; Working with memory

Alec S. Bogdanoff, Douglas L. Westphal, James R. Campbell, James A. Cummings, Edward J. Hyer, Jeffrey S. Reid, Carol Anne Clayson, Sensitivity of infrared sea surface temperature retrievals to the vertical distribution of airborne dust aerosol, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 159, 15 March 2015, Pages 1-13, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2014.12.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425714004787)
Abstract: Abstract
Sea surface temperature retrievals using the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer are highly sensitive to cloud cover and coarse mode aerosol particles such as dust. Operationally, techniques are used to flag contaminated retrievals; however, these techniques are less precise in removing dust-contaminated values. A commonly stated metric of quality for SST daytime retrievals is 0.5 °C; thus dust contents that produce errors greater than this value should be of concern. Here we report on significant correlation between potential SST error and observed aerosol optical depths (AOD) that was found in the tropical region dominated by Saharan dust. Utilizing a radiative transfer model with variable dust contents and typical vertical distributions, errors greater than the desired 0.5 °C accuracy are observed for dust AODs as low as 0.05. Errors of over 1 °C occur with 0.25 AOD. Analysis of the AERONET data from Cape Verde, which includes the Saharan Air Layer off the west coast of Africa, reveals that 90% of the days during the boreal summer are found to have AOD amounts that correspond to error greater than 0.5 °C. We found that a correction accurate within 0.25 °C requires a mean accuracy of 0.1 AOD and proper vertical placement of the dust layer within 250 m. While empirical SST retrievals often have some measure of climatological dust contamination built into them, this work shows that typical variability in dust loadings is a non-trivial error source against SST retrieval goals.
Keywords: Dust aerosols; Sea surface temperature; Retrieval error; Radiative transfer; Infrared remote sensing

Bo Li, Yijuan Lu, Chunyuan Li, Afzal Godil, Tobias Schreck, Masaki Aono, Martin Burtscher, Qiang Chen, Nihad Karim Chowdhury, Bin Fang, Hongbo Fu, Takahiko Furuya, Haisheng Li, Jianzhuang Liu, Henry Johan, Ryuichi Kosaka, Hitoshi Koyanagi, Ryutarou Ohbuchi, Atsushi Tatsuma, Yajuan Wan, Chaoli Zhang, Changqing Zou, A comparison of 3D shape retrieval methods based on a large-scale benchmark supporting multimodal queries, Computer Vision and Image Understanding, Volume 131, February 2015, Pages 1-27, ISSN 1077-3142, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cviu.2014.10.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1077314214002100)
Abstract: Abstract
Large-scale 3D shape retrieval has become an important research direction in content-based 3D shape retrieval. To promote this research area, two Shape Retrieval Contest (SHREC) tracks on large scale comprehensive and sketch-based 3D model retrieval have been organized by us in 2014. Both tracks were based on a unified large-scale benchmark that supports multimodal queries (3D models and sketches). This benchmark contains 13680 sketches and 8987 3D models, divided into 171 distinct classes. It was compiled to be a superset of existing benchmarks and presents a new challenge to retrieval methods as it comprises generic models as well as domain-specific model types. Twelve and six distinct 3D shape retrieval methods have competed with each other in these two contests, respectively. To measure and compare the performance of the participating and other promising Query-by-Model or Query-by-Sketch 3D shape retrieval methods and to solicit state-of-the-art approaches, we perform a more comprehensive comparison of twenty-six (eighteen originally participating algorithms and eight additional state-of-the-art or new) retrieval methods by evaluating them on the common benchmark. The benchmark, results, and evaluation tools are publicly available at our websites (http://www.itl.nist.gov/iad/vug/sharp/contest/2014/Generic3D/, 2014, http://www.itl.nist.gov/iad/vug/sharp/contest/2014/SBR/, 2014).
Keywords: 3D shape retrieval; Large-scale benchmark; Multimodal queries; Unified; Performance evaluation; Query-by-Model; Query-by-Sketch; SHREC

Juan M. Lopez-Sanchez, Fernando Vicente-Guijalba, Esra Erten, Manuel Campos-Taberner, Francisco Javier Garcia-Haro, Retrieval of vegetation height in rice fields using polarimetric SAR interferometry with TanDEM-X data, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 192, April 2017, Pages 30-44, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2017.02.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425717300536)
Abstract: Abstract
This work presents for the first time a demonstration with satellite data of polarimetric SAR interferometry (PolInSAR) applied to the retrieval of vegetation height in rice fields. Three series of dual-pol interferometric SAR data acquired with large baselines (2–3 km) by the TanDEM-X system during its science phase (April–September 2015) are exploited. A novel inversion algorithm especially suited for rice fields cultivated in flooded soil is proposed and evaluated. The validation is carried out over three test sites located in geographically different areas: Sevilla (SW Spain), Valencia (E Spain), and Ipsala (W Turkey), in which different rice types are present. Results are obtained during the whole growth cycle and demonstrate that PolInSAR is useful to produce accurate height estimates (RMSE 10–20 cm) when plants are tall enough (taller than 25–40 cm), without relying on external reference information.
Keywords: Agriculture; TanDEM-X; Rice; Synthetic aperture radar (SAR); PolSAR; Interferometry; PolInSAR; Vegetation height

Zhenbao Liu, Shuhui Bu, Junwei Han, Locality-constrained sparse patch coding for 3D shape retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 151, Part 2, 5 March 2015, Pages 583-592, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.06.090.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231214013927)
Abstract: Abstract
3D shape retrieval is a fundamental task in many domains such as multimedia, graphics, CAD, and amusement. In this paper, we propose a 3D object retrieval approach by effectively utilizing low-level patches of 3D shapes, which are similar as superpixels in images. These patches are first obtained by means of stably over-segmenting 3D shape, and then we adopt five representative geometric features including shape diameter function, average geodesic distance, and heat kernel signature, to characterize these low-level patches. A large number of patches collected from shapes in a dataset are encoded into patch words by virtue of locality-constrained sparse coding under the consideration of local smooth sparsity. Input query is compared with 3D models in the dataset through probability distribution of patch words. Experiments reveal that the proposed method achieves comparable retrieval performance to state-of-the-art methods.
Keywords: 3D shape retrieval; Patch; Sparse coding; Locality constraint

Fanglin Wang, Jialiang Peng, Yongjie Li, Hypergraph based feature fusion for 3-D object retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 151, Part 2, 5 March 2015, Pages 612-619, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.03.090.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231214013812)
Abstract: Abstract
In view-based 3D object retrieval, each object is represented by a set of image views. 3D object retrieval becomes a group matching problem under such definition. Recent works have shown the effectiveness of hypergraph learning that computes the distance between 3D objects by solving a hypergraph structure problem. However, the single feature used in most of state-of-the-art works is often not sufficient to describe a 3D object. In this paper, we propose a feature fusion method based on hypergraph for 3D object retrieval. Besides the frequently used Zernike moments feature, we propose a Dense Kernel Local Binary Feature (DKLBP) feature for 3D object view description. A feature fusion method is proposed under the hypgraph framework. Experiments are conducted on the popular ETH-80 and National Taiwan University 3D model datatsets. Extensive experimental results show that the proposed approach has made significant performance improvement compared to other competitive approaches in recent works.
Keywords: 3-D object retrieval; Hypergraph learning; Dense Kerne LBP; Feature fusion

Fangxiang Feng, Ruifan Li, Xiaojie Wang, Deep correspondence restricted Boltzmann machine for cross-modal retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 154, 22 April 2015, Pages 50-60, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.12.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231214016841)
Abstract: Abstract
The task of cross-modal retrieval, i.e., using a text query to search for images or vice versa, has received considerable attention with the rapid growth of multi-modal web data. Modeling the correlations between different modalities is the key to tackle this problem. In this paper, we propose a correspondence restricted Boltzmann machine (Corr-RBM) to map the original features of bimodal data, such as image and text in our setting, into a low-dimensional common space, in which the heterogeneous data are comparable. In our Corr-RBM, two RBMs built for image and text, respectively are connected at their individual hidden representation layers by a correlation loss function. A single objective function is constructed to trade off the correlation loss and likelihoods of both modalities. Through the optimization of this objective function, our Corr-RBM is able to capture the correlations between two modalities and learn the representation of each modality simultaneously. Furthermore, we construct two deep neural structures using Corr-RBM as the main building block for the task of cross-modal retrieval. A number of comparison experiments are performed on three public real-world data sets. All of our models show significantly better results than state-of-the-art models in both searching images via text query and vice versa.
Keywords: Cross-modal; RBM; Retrieval; Deep Learning; Multi-modal

A. Chaker, M. Kaaniche, A. Benazza-Benyahia, Disparity based stereo image retrieval through univariate and bivariate models, Signal Processing: Image Communication, Volume 31, February 2015, Pages 174-184, ISSN 0923-5965, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.image.2014.12.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923596514001829)
Abstract: Abstract
The widespread use of stereovision in various application fields has led to the constitution of very huge stereo image databases. Therefore, the design of effective content based image retrieval system devoted to stereo pairs becomes an issue of importance. To this end, we propose in this paper two retrieval methods which combine the visual contents of the stereo images with their corresponding disparity information. After modeling the distribution of their associated wavelet coefficients by the generalized Gaussian statistical model, the resulting distribution parameters are selected as salient features. While the two views are processed separately through a univariate modeling in the first method, the second one exploits the correlation between the views by resorting to a bivariate modeling. Experimental results show the benefits which can be drawn from the proposed retrieval approaches.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval; Wavelet domain; Stereo pairs; Disparity map; Feature extraction

Jing Li, Yan Gong, Hongfu Chen, Xinrong Hu, Wave-front reconstruction with Hartmann–Shack sensor using a phase-retrieval method, Optics Communications, Volume 336, 1 February 2015, Pages 127-133, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2014.09.086.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401814009249)
Abstract: Abstract
We apply a phase retrieval algorithm to the intensity patterns acquired from a Hartmann–Shack wave-front sensor to measure the wave-front aberration of a deep ultraviolet lithography system. The intensity patterns are obtained with and without the micro-lens array. Thus, we avoid selecting algorithm-specific parameters such as step-size and trust-region. Simulation results show that the phase-retrieval method enhances the accuracy of wave-front reconstruction compared with the conventional wave-front slope method. The relationships between the number of iterations of the phase retrieval algorithm, the calculating time and the wave-front reconstruction error are studied. This study demonstrates that the phase-retrieval method provides more accurate estimates of aberrations in near-flat wave-fronts relative to the wave-front slope method.
Keywords: Testing; Active or adaptive optics; Phase retrieval; Wave-front sensing.

Anuja khodaskar, Siddarth Ladhake, Advanced Image Retrieval with Topical Classification Strategy, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 48, 2015, Pages 263-268, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.04.180.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915006894)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper proposed an advanced content based image retrieval system using topical rule based classification strategy which improve retrieval performance significantly. We also present overview of image classification which highlights categories of classification, factor affecting accuracy of classification and recent applications of classification with advanced techniques and help researchers to continue their work for improving classification accuracy. The proposed classification strategy used three training rules, low level, high level and expert rules which improve classification accuracy and effectiveness, ultimately encroachment in quality of classification. Experimental result shows performance evolution in precision, accuracy and retrieval time of image retrieval.
Keywords: Accuracy; Classification Strategy; Image retrieval system; Training rules; Retrieval time ;

Kommineni Jenni, Satria Mandala, Mohd Shahrizal Sunar, Content Based Image Retrieval Using Colour Strings Comparison, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 50, 2015, Pages 374-379, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.04.032.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915005335)
Abstract: Abstract
Content Based Image Retrieval (CBIR) is a technique that enables a user to extract an image based on a query, from a database containing a large amount of images. A very fundamental issue in designing a content based image retrieval system is to select the image features that best represent the image contents in a database. In this paper, our proposed method mainly concentrated on database classification and efficient image representation. We present a method for content based image retrieval based on support vector machine classifier. In this method the feature extraction was done based on the colour string coding and string comparison. We succeed in transferring the images retrieval problem to strings comparison. Thus the computational complexity is decreases obviously. The image database used in our experiment contains 1800 colour images from Corel photo galleries. This CBIR approach has significantly increased the accuracy in obtaining results for image retrieval.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval; Image Databases: colour string coding; strings comparison ;

Xiangyu Wang, Weizhi Nie, 3D Model Retrieval with Weighted Locality-constrained Group Sparse Coding, Neurocomputing, Volume 151, Part 2, 5 March 2015, Pages 620-625, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.03.091.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092523121401385X)
Abstract: Abstract
In recent years, we have witnessed a flourishing of 3D object modelling. Efficient and effective 3D model retrieval algorithms are high desired and attracted intensive research attentions. In this work, we propose a view-based 3D model retrieval algorithm based on weighted locality-constrained group sparse coding. Representative views are first selected by clustering and the corresponding weights are provided by considering the relationship among these views. By grouping the views from 3D models, a locality-constrained group sparse coding method is employed to find the reconstruction residual for each query view. The distance between query model and candidate model is taken as the weighted sum of residual. The query model is matched to the model which can best reconstruct the query model. Experimental comparisons have been conducted on the ETH 3D model dataset, and the results have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Keywords: Locality-constrained; Group sparse coding; 3D model retrieval

Zhenzhong Kuang, Zongmin Li, Xiaxia Jiang, Yujie Liu, Hua Li, Retrieval of non-rigid 3D shapes from multiple aspects, Computer-Aided Design, Volume 58, January 2015, Pages 13-23, ISSN 0010-4485, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cad.2014.08.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S001044851400164X)
Abstract: Abstract
As non-rigid 3D shape plays increasingly important roles in practical applications, this paper addresses its retrieval problem by considering three aspects: shape representation, retrieval optimization, and shape filtering. (1) For shape representation, two kinds of features are considered. We first propose a new integration kernel based local descriptor, and then an efficient voting scheme is designed for shape representation. Besides, we also study the commute times as shape distributions, which grasp the spatial shape information globally. Both of them capture shape information from different viewpoints based on the same embedding basis. (2) We then study the typical problem of retrieval optimization. Prior works show poor stability under different similarity windows. To deal with this deficiency, we propose to model the problem as a distance mapping on a graph in spectral manifold space. (3) Usually, for each retrieval input, a list is returned and there may be lots of irrelevant results. We develop an algorithm to filter them out by combining multiple kernels. Finally, three public datasets are employed for performance evaluation and the results show that the studied techniques have contributed a lot in promoting the recognition rate of non-rigid 3D shapes.
Keywords: Non-rigid shape retrieval; Multiple aspects; Shape representation; Retrieval optimization; Shape filtering

Yong Tian, Mutao Huang, Enhance discovery and retrieval of geospatial data using SOA and Semantic Web technologies, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 39, Issue 16, 15 November 2012, Pages 12522-12535, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2012.04.061.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417412006586)
Abstract: The ability to find and access geospatial data over the Internet through a single tool will be a great benefit for researchers who try to collect relevant data for a particular study. This requires a unified system to bring together diverse data sources so that they can be searched simultaneously in a single environment. Dealing with diversity of data sources and coping with heterogeneities that exist between them are the major challenges in this endeavor. This paper presents the efforts of combining Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) specifications, Universal Description, Discovery and Integration (UDDI) standards and ontologies to address these challenges. The primary goal is to enhance discovery of web services compliant with OGC specifications and promote access to geospatial information via the OGC services. To this end, this paper introduces an approach for incorporating ontology into UDDI registry and proposes an advertisement algorithm for representing service metadata contained in the OGC capabilities document via UDDI data structures, providing therefore a way to record semantic, descriptive and technical information of OGC services inside UDDI registry. Then the paper illustrates how this information could be used to enhance service discovery with the aid of semantic reasoning. Based on the proposed approaches and service-oriented architectures (SOA) strategies, a web-based prototype system has been developed in order to help users query, access and visualize geospatial data of different types in a unified interface. Several running examples are given to demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of the prototype.
Keywords: Service discovery; Web information systems; Information retrieval; Ontologies; Geospatial data; Service-oriented architectures

Alba G. Seco de Herrera, Roger Schaer, Dimitrios Markonis, Henning Müller, Comparing fusion techniques for the ImageCLEF 2013 medical case retrieval task, Computerized Medical Imaging and Graphics, Volume 39, January 2015, Pages 46-54, ISSN 0895-6111, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compmedimag.2014.04.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0895611114000445)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieval systems can supply similar cases with a proven diagnosis to a new example case under observation to help clinicians during their work. The ImageCLEFmed evaluation campaign proposes a framework where research groups can compare case-based retrieval approaches.

This paper focuses on the case-based task and adds results of the compound figure separation and modality classification tasks. Several fusion approaches are compared to identify the approaches best adapted to the heterogeneous data of the task. Fusion of visual and textual features is analyzed, demonstrating that the selection of the fusion strategy can improve the best performance on the case-based retrieval task.
Keywords: Medical case-based retrieval; Multimodal fusion; Visual reranking; ImageCLEF; MedGIFT

Rui Huang, Shusheng Zhang, Xiaoliang Bai, Changhong Xu, Bo Huang, An effective subpart retrieval approach of 3D CAD models for manufacturing process reuse, Computers in Industry, Volume 67, February 2015, Pages 38-53, ISSN 0166-3615, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2014.12.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361514002061)
Abstract: Abstract
As a vast number of 3D CAD models associated with manufacturing processes are generated each year, retrieval of 3D CAD models for achieving manufacturing process reuse is becoming an effective strategy for engineers to generate the process plan with less time and lower cost. However, there has been little research on how to find the similar subparts for manufacturing process reuse. In this paper, a novel subpart retrieval approach of 3D CAD models for manufacturing process reuse is presented. First, coupled machining feature cluster (CMFC) is introduced to represent the 3D CAD model into structured MBD (model-based definition) model taking machining features as the carrier of manufacturing semantics. Then, part layer code and CMFC content code for accelerating subpart retrieval are given to filter out unmatched subparts efficiently. Moreover, a multilevel feature descriptor capturing different levels of information for manufacturing process planning is designed to establish the machining feature similarity assessment model. Finally, the machining feature coupled graph (MFCG) based subpart matching algorithm is presented to calculate the similarity between matched subparts. A prototype system has been developed to verify the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Keywords: Subpart retrieval; Manufacturing process reuse; Structured MBD model; Coupled machining feature cluster; Manufacturing semantics

T. Kanimozhi, K. Latha, An integrated approach to region based image retrieval using firefly algorithm and support vector machine, Neurocomputing, Volume 151, Part 3, 3 March 2015, Pages 1099-1111, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.07.078.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231214013332)
Abstract: Abstract
Intelligent image retrieval is a challenging technology in multimedia applications where bridging the gap between user׳s expectation and low level features is typically hard for computing systems. In the proposed approach, a unique method is projected which integrates support vector machine based learning with an evolutionary stochastic algorithm, called firefly algorithm as a relevance feedback approach into a region based image retrieval system. This system overcomes the semantic gap through optimized iterative learning and also provides a better exploration of solution space. Support vector machine learning automatically updates the weights of preferences for relevant images based on the both relevant and irrelevant feedback images. The firefly optimizer guides the swarm agents to move towards the cluster of relevant images in the exploration of the search space based on user׳s feedback. This research study has a focused approach to increase the performance by optimizing region feature with the firefly algorithm. The efficiency of the proposed approach is experimented on the standard subset of Corel, Caltech and Pascal database images. The performance of the proposed approach is compared with other existing retrieval methods like particle swarm optimization, genetic algorithm, support vector machine and query point movement to identify the excellence with regard to the model in terms of precision and recall.
Keywords: Region-based image retrieval; Support vector machine; Firefly algorithm; Gaussian distribution; Particle swarm optimization; Genetic algorithm

Jason L. Hicks, Jeffrey J. Starns, Chapter Four - Using Multidimensional Encoding and Retrieval Contexts to Enhance Our Understanding of Stochastic Dependence in Source Memory, In: BRIAN H. ROSS, Editor(s), Psychology of Learning and Motivation, Academic Press, 2015, Volume 62, Pages 101-140, ISSN 0079-7421, ISBN 9780128022733, https://doi.org/10.1016/bs.plm.2014.09.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S007974211400005X)
Abstract: Abstract
In this chapter, we review and interpret research on multidimensional source memory paradigms. We focus in particular on research in which two source dimensions (e.g., color and location of a word stimulus), or features, or context attributes, are encoded and subsequently retrieved. We cover some of the basic empirical outcomes of interest, notably the finding of stochastic dependence among retrieval of source dimensions. Such dependence implies that retrieval of one source dimension is related to the retrievability of the other source dimension. Many research papers have established that stochastic dependence is supported by encoding factors that help bind items to context, and perhaps even context to context. Yet the finding of, and degree of, stochastic dependence at retrieval does not always relate predictably to other manipulations, such as when people are focused on one or the other source dimension in an encoding phase. Moreover, other theoretical proposals target retrieval processes, apart from encoding processes, as producing such dependence. Research that has included retrieval manipulations, such as external cuing of source dimensions at test, suggests that retrieval-specific causes of stochastic dependence have not been established. We also discuss other paradigms that are relevant to the retrieval of multiple object features and whether their retrieval is dependent or independent of one another. Mixed evidence results from this work, with some arguing for relative independence of object features, but others arguing for strong associative relationships among elements that predict somewhat all-or-none retrieval of items and their contexts or features (i.e., dependence). We attempt to integrate these various research paradigms and draw some broad, albeit tentative, conclusions about this collective work. We also suggest areas of research that should be considered as future work in multidimensional source memory.
Keywords: Context memory; External cuing; Feature independence; Multidimensional source memory; Source retrieval; Stochastic dependence

Ranmalee Bandara, Jeffrey P. Walker, Christoph Rüdiger, Olivier Merlin, Towards soil property retrieval from space: An application with disaggregated satellite observations, Journal of Hydrology, Volume 522, March 2015, Pages 582-593, ISSN 0022-1694, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2015.01.018.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022169415000359)
Abstract: Summary
Soil moisture plays a key role in most environmental processes, as evaporation and transpiration are heavily dependent on soil moisture variability. While it is one of the few important hydrological variables that can be directly observed, the high spatial and temporal variability makes it difficult to measure globally or even regionally. Reliance is therefore placed on land surface models to predict the evolution of soil moisture using low-resolution soil property information or typical values. But to make predictions with the required accuracy, more reliable and detailed soil parameter data are required than those currently available. This paper demonstrates the ability to retrieve soil hydraulic parameters from near-surface measurements, using Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS) observations disaggregated to 1 km resolution for a demonstration area the size of a single SMOS footprint. The disaggregated soil moisture product was first assessed against in-situ soil moisture observations, before testing the retrieval methodology using the disaggregated soil moisture data for individual soil columns co-located with three long-term monitoring sites in the Murrumbidgee Catchment. The retrieval methodology was then applied to the entire 40 km × 40 km demonstration area at 5 km spatial resolution. The results suggest that spatially variable soil hydraulic properties exist in the study area, while published soil texture maps show only a single soil type, meaning that a single set of soil hydraulic parameters would normally be used in soil moisture prediction models for this region. Use of a single set of soil hydraulic parameters, rather than the spatially variables ones, was estimated to have an approximate 0.06 m3/m3 impact on the soil moisture prediction.
Keywords: Soil hydraulic parameters; Spatial retrieval; JULES; Land surface modelling; DISPATCH

Jian Fu, Xinhua Hu, Chen Li, X-ray differential phase-contrast tomographic reconstruction with a phase line integral retrieval filter, Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research Section A: Accelerators, Spectrometers, Detectors and Associated Equipment, Volume 778, 1 April 2015, Pages 14-19, ISSN 0168-9002, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nima.2014.12.103.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168900215000054)
Abstract: Abstract
We report an alternative reconstruction technique for x-ray differential phase-contrast computed tomography (DPC-CT). This approach is based on a new phase line integral projection retrieval filter, which is rooted in the derivative property of the Fourier transform and counteracts the differential nature of the DPC-CT projections. It first retrieves the phase line integral from the DPC-CT projections. Then the standard filtered back-projection (FBP) algorithms popular in x-ray absorption-contrast CT are directly applied to the retrieved phase line integrals to reconstruct the DPC-CT images. Compared with the conventional DPC-CT reconstruction algorithms, the proposed method removes the Hilbert imaginary filter and allows for the direct use of absorption-contrast FBP algorithms. Consequently, FBP-oriented image processing techniques and reconstruction acceleration softwares that have already been successfully used in absorption-contrast CT can be directly adopted to improve the DPC-CT image quality and speed up the reconstruction.
Keywords: X-ray computed tomography; Phase contrast; Image reconstruction; Phase projection retrieval; Filtered back-projection

Dung-Ying Lin, Yen-Ju Lee, Yusin Lee, The container retrieval problem with respect to relocation, Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies, Volume 52, March 2015, Pages 132-143, ISSN 0968-090X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2015.01.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0968090X15000327)
Abstract: Abstract
The demand for container terminal yards is growing significantly faster than the supply of available land; therefore, containers are typically stacked high to better utilize the land space in container yards. However, in the process of container retrieval, non-productive reshuffling may be required to relocate the containers that are stacked on top of the target container. Container retrieval is directly related to the operational efficiency of terminals. Because the industry has become increasingly competitive, it has become critical to introduce a systematic approach to retrieving containers. In this study, we develop a heuristic that can generate feasible working plans for rail-mounted gantry cranes (RMGC) in container yards to minimize the number of container movements while taking the RMGC working time into consideration. The methodology takes into consideration the case that containers are grouped in terms of their retrieval order. Multi-lift RMGC models also are studied. Comprehensive numerical experiments reveal that the method runs faster than other methods published in the literature by several orders of magnitude; additionally, our method is able to solve instances larger than practical use. The number of movements approaches a theoretical lower bound, and the numerical results clearly demonstrate the tradeoff between the number of movements and the working time, and provide useful insights for yard planning.
Keywords: Container retrieval; Rail mounted gantry crane (RMGC); Container yard; Multi-lift; Heuristic

David Picard, Arnaud Revel, Matthieu Cord, An application of swarm intelligence to distributed image retrieval, Information Sciences, Volume 192, 1 June 2012, Pages 71-81, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2010.03.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025510001155)
Abstract: In this article, we introduce an application of swarm intelligence to distributed visual information retrieval distributed over networks. Based on the relevance feedback scheme, we use ant-like agents to crawl the network and to retrieve relevant images. Agents movements are influenced by markers stored on the hosts. These markers are reinforced to match the distribution of relevant images over the network. We tackle the use of the information gathered during previous search sessions. In order to match the different categories available on the network, we use several markers. Sessions searching for the same category will thus use the same makers. The system involves three learning problems: the selection of relevant markers regarding the searched category, the reinforcement of these markers and the learning of the relevance function. All of these problems are based on the relevance feedback loop. We test our system on a custom network hosting images taken from the well known TrecVid dataset. Our system shows a high improvement over classical content based image retrieval systems which do not use previous sessions information.
Keywords: Distributed information retrieval; Content based image retrieval; Multi-agents system; Ant colony optimization

Jayashree Kalpathy-Cramer, Alba García Seco de Herrera, Dina Demner-Fushman, Sameer Antani, Steven Bedrick, Henning Müller, Evaluating performance of biomedical image retrieval systems—An overview of the medical image retrieval task at ImageCLEF 2004–2013, Computerized Medical Imaging and Graphics, Volume 39, January 2015, Pages 55-61, ISSN 0895-6111, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compmedimag.2014.03.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0895611114000366)
Abstract: Abstract
Medical image retrieval and classification have been extremely active research topics over the past 15 years. Within the ImageCLEF benchmark in medical image retrieval and classification, a standard test bed was created that allows researchers to compare their approaches and ideas on increasingly large and varied data sets including generated ground truth. This article describes the lessons learned in ten evaluation campaigns. A detailed analysis of the data also highlights the value of the resources created.
Keywords: Multimodal medical retrieval; Image retrieval; Biomedical literature; Content-based retrieval; Text-based image retrieval

J.-P. Wigneron, T.J. Jackson, P. O'Neill, G. De Lannoy, P. de Rosnay, J.P. Walker, P. Ferrazzoli, V. Mironov, S. Bircher, J.P. Grant, M. Kurum, M. Schwank, J. Munoz-Sabater, N. Das, A. Royer, A. Al-Yaari, A. Al Bitar, R. Fernandez-Moran, H. Lawrence, A. Mialon, M. Parrens, P. Richaume, S. Delwart, Y. Kerr, Modelling the passive microwave signature from land surfaces: A review of recent results and application to the L-band SMOS &amp; SMAP soil moisture retrieval algorithms, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 192, April 2017, Pages 238-262, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2017.01.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425717300366)
Abstract: Abstract
Two passive microwave missions are currently operating at L-band to monitor surface soil moisture (SM) over continental surfaces. The SMOS sensor, based on an innovative interferometric technology enabling multi-angular signatures of surfaces to be measured, was launched in November 2009. The SMAP sensor, based on a large mesh reflector 6 m in diameter providing a conically scanning antenna beam with a surface incidence angle of 40°, was launched in January of 2015. Over the last decade, an intense scientific activity has focused on the development of the SM retrieval algorithms for the two missions. This activity has relied on many field (mainly tower-based) and airborne experimental campaigns, and since 2010–2011, on the SMOS and Aquarius space-borne L-band observations. It has relied too on the use of numerical, physical and semi-empirical models to simulate the microwave brightness temperature of natural scenes for a variety of scenarios in terms of system configurations (polarization, incidence angle) and soil, vegetation and climate conditions. Key components of the inversion models have been evaluated and new parameterizations of the effects of the surface temperature, soil roughness, soil permittivity, and vegetation extinction and scattering have been developed. Among others, global maps of select radiative transfer parameters have been estimated very recently. Based on this intense activity, improvements of the SMOS and SMAP SM inversion algorithms have been proposed. Some of them have already been implemented, whereas others are currently being investigated. In this paper, we present a review of the significant progress which has been made over the last decade in this field of research with a focus on L-band, and a discussion on possible applications to the SMOS and SMAP soil moisture retrieval approaches.

Alejandro Revuelta-Martínez, Luis Rodríguez, Ismael García-Varea, Francisco Montero, Multimodal interaction for information retrieval using natural language, Computer Standards & Interfaces, Volume 35, Issue 5, September 2013, Pages 428-441, ISSN 0920-5489, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2012.11.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920548912001262)
Abstract: Abstract
Nowadays, information retrieval systems are widely available and routinely used by many non-skilled computer users. Therefore, user interfaces have to be simple, natural and, above all, they should not require any technical knowledge. To this end, an architecture to develop interactive systems that allow users to access to databases using natural language is presented. The performance and quality of our proposal are shown from two different points of view. Firstly, by conducting an internal quality evaluation process to measure the system accuracy. Secondly, by assessing external quality through user oriented experiments according to metrics from international standards.
Keywords: Natural language processing (NLP); Database interface; Statistical machine translation; Interactive text generation; Spoken dialog

Matthew S. Simpson, Daekeun You, Md Mahmudur Rahman, Zhiyun Xue, Dina Demner-Fushman, Sameer Antani, George Thoma, Literature-based biomedical image classification and retrieval, Computerized Medical Imaging and Graphics, Volume 39, January 2015, Pages 3-13, ISSN 0895-6111, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compmedimag.2014.06.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0895611114000998)
Abstract: Abstract
Literature-based image informatics techniques are essential for managing the rapidly increasing volume of information in the biomedical domain. Compound figure separation, modality classification, and image retrieval are three related tasks useful for enabling efficient access to the most relevant images contained in the literature. In this article, we describe approaches to these tasks and the evaluation of our methods as part of the 2013 medical track of ImageCLEF. In performing each of these tasks, the textual and visual features used to represent images are an important consideration often left unaddressed. Therefore, we also describe a gradient-based optimization strategy for determining meaningful combinations of features and apply the method to the image retrieval task. An evaluation of our optimization strategy indicates the method is capable of producing statistically significant improvements in retrieval performance. Furthermore, the results of the 2013 ImageCLEF evaluation demonstrate the effectiveness of our techniques. In particular, our text-based and mixed image retrieval methods ranked first among all the participating groups.
Keywords: Image-based retrieval; Case-based retrieval; Modality classification; Compound figure separation

Xiao Bai, Cheng Yan, Haichuan Yang, Lu Bai, Jun Zhou, Edwin Robert Hancock, Adaptive hash retrieval with kernel based similarity, Pattern Recognition, Available online 30 March 2017, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2017.03.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320317301310)
Abstract: Abstract
Indexing methods have been widely used for fast data retrieval on large scale datasets. When the data are represented by high dimensional vectors, hashing is often used as an efficient solution for approximate similarity search. When a retrieval task does not involve supervised training data, most hashing methods aim at preserving data similarity defined by a distance metric on the feature vectors. Hash codes generated by these approaches normally maintain the Hamming distance of the data in accordance with the similarity function, but ignore the local details of the distribution of data. This objective is not suitable for k-nearest neighbor search since the similarity to the nearest neighbors can vary significantly for different data samples. In this paper, we present a novel adaptive similarity measure which is consistent with k-nearest neighbor search, and prove that it leads to a valid kernel if the original similarity function is a kernel function. Next we propose a method which calculates hash codes using the kernel function. With a low-rank approximation, our hashing framework is more effective than existing methods that preserve similarity over an arbitrary kernel. The proposed similarity function, hashing framework, and their combination demonstrate significant improvement when compared with several alternative state-of-the-art methods.
Keywords: Hashing; K-NN; Kernel; Binary indexing; Normalized Euclidean distance

Jennifer Czerniawski, Teiko Miyashita, Gail Lewandowski, John F. Guzowski, Systemic lipopolysaccharide administration impairs retrieval of context–object discrimination, but not spatial, memory: Evidence for selective disruption of specific hippocampus-dependent memory functions during acute neuroinflammation, Brain, Behavior, and Immunity, Volume 44, February 2015, Pages 159-166, ISSN 0889-1591, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbi.2014.09.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S088915911400467X)
Abstract: Abstract
Neuroinflammation is implicated in impairments in neuronal function and cognition that arise with aging, trauma, and/or disease. Therefore, understanding the underlying basis of the effect of immune system activation on neural function could lead to therapies for treating cognitive decline. Although neuroinflammation is widely thought to preferentially impair hippocampus-dependent memory, data on the effects of cytokines on cognition are mixed. One possible explanation for these inconsistent results is that cytokines may disrupt specific neural processes underlying some forms of memory but not others. In an earlier study, we tested the effect of systemic administration of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on retrieval of hippocampus-dependent context memory and neural circuit function in CA3 and CA1 (Czerniawski and Guzowski, 2014). Paralleling impairment in context discrimination memory, we observed changes in neural circuit function consistent with disrupted pattern separation function. In the current study we tested the hypothesis that acute neuroinflammation selectively disrupts memory retrieval in tasks requiring hippocampal pattern separation processes. Male Sprague–Dawley rats given LPS systemically prior to testing exhibited intact performance in tasks that do not require hippocampal pattern separation processes: novel object recognition and spatial memory in the water maze. By contrast, memory retrieval in a task thought to require hippocampal pattern separation, context–object discrimination, was strongly impaired in LPS-treated rats in the absence of any gross effects on exploratory activity or motivation. These data show that LPS administration does not impair memory retrieval in all hippocampus-dependent tasks, and support the hypothesis that acute neuroinflammation impairs context discrimination memory via disruption of pattern separation processes in hippocampus.
Keywords: Neuroinflammation; Memory retrieval; Lipopolysaccharide; Water maze; Context discrimination; Novel object recognition; Hippocampus

Dorit Nevo, Izak Benbasat, Yair Wand, The knowledge demands of expertise seekers in two different contexts: Knowledge allocation versus knowledge retrieval, Decision Support Systems, Volume 53, Issue 3, June 2012, Pages 482-489, ISSN 0167-9236, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2012.03.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923612000917)
Abstract: This paper explores the knowledge demands of expertise seekers for the purpose of designing effective expertise locator systems. We conduct an empirical investigation, using conjoint analysis and within-subject tests, to determine the relative importance assigned to different expert attributes under two expertise seeking contexts: knowledge allocation and knowledge retrieval. Our results show that when choosing an expert to retrieve knowledge from (knowledge retrieval), expertise seekers will assign greater importance to the person's level of expertise. When selecting an expert to transfer knowledge to (knowledge allocation), attributes representing the network ties between the expert and the seeker as well as the benevolence of the expert will be perceived as more important. These results are important for the design of expertise locator systems that are better customized to fit the knowledge needs of their users, and to serve the organization as a whole.
Keywords: Expertise location; Knowledge allocation; Knowledge retrieval; Information systems; Expert selection decision

Sarah E. Rosenbaum, Claire Glenton, Andrew D. Oxman, Summary-of-findings tables in Cochrane reviews improved understanding and rapid retrieval of key information, Journal of Clinical Epidemiology, Volume 63, Issue 6, June 2010, Pages 620-626, ISSN 0895-4356, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclinepi.2009.12.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0895435610000284)
Abstract: Objective
To measure the effects of a summary-of-findings (SoF) table on user satisfaction, understanding, and time spent finding key results in a Cochrane review.
Study Design and Setting
We randomized participants in an evidence-based practice workshop (randomized controlled trial [RCT] I) and a Cochrane Collaboration entities meeting (RCT II) to receive a Cochrane review with or without an SoF table. In RCT I, we measured user satisfaction. In RCT II, we measured correct comprehension and time spent finding key results.
Results
RCT I: Participants with the SoF table (n = 47) were more likely to “agree” or “strongly agree” that it was easy to find results for important outcomes than (n = 25) participants without the SoF table—68% vs. 40% (P = 0.021). RCT II: Participants with the SoF table (n = 18) were more likely to correctly answer two questions regarding results than (n = 15) those without the SoF table: 93% vs. 44% (P = 0.003) and 87% vs. 11% (P &lt; 0.001). Participants with the SoF table spent an average of 90 seconds to find key information compared with 4 minutes for participants without the SoF table (P = 0.002).
Conclusion
In two small trials, we found that inclusion of an SoF table in a review improved understanding and rapid retrieval of key findings compared with reviews with no SoF table.
Keywords: Knowledge translation; Health numeracy; Risk communication; Systematic reviews; Information design; Randomized controlled trial

Subrahmanyam Murala, Q.M. Jonathan Wu, Spherical symmetric 3D local ternary patterns for natural, texture and biomedical image indexing and retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 149, Part C, 3 February 2015, Pages 1502-1514, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.08.042.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231214010868)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we propose a new algorithm using spherical symmetric three dimensional local ternary patterns (SS-3D-LTP) for natural, texture and biomedical image retrieval applications. The existing local binary patterns (LBP), local ternary patterns (LTP), local derivative patterns (LDP), local tetra patterns (LTrP) etc., are encode the relationship between the center pixel and its surrounding neighbors in two dimensional (2D) local region of an image. The proposed method encodes the relationship between the center pixel and its surrounding neighbors with five selected directions in 3D plane which is generated from 2D image using multiresolution Gaussian filter bank. In addition, we propose the color SS-3D-LTP (CSS-3D-LTP) where we consider the RGB spaces as three planes of 3D volume. Three experiments have been carried out for proving the worth of our algorithm for natural, texture and biomedical image retrieval applications. It is further mentioned that the databases used for natural, texture and biomedical image retrieval applications are Corel-10K, Brodatz and open access series of imaging studies (OASIS) magnetic resonance databases respectively. The results after being investigated show a significant improvement in terms of their evaluation measures as compared to the start-of-art spatial as well as transform domain techniques on respective databases.
Keywords: Local binary pattern (LBP); Local ternary patterns (LTP); Texture; Biomedical image retrieval

Xiang-Yang Wang, Hong-Ying Yang, Dong-Ming Li, A new content-based image retrieval technique using color and texture information, Computers & Electrical Engineering, Volume 39, Issue 3, April 2013, Pages 746-761, ISSN 0045-7906, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2013.01.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790613000116)
Abstract: Feature extraction and representation is one of the most important issues in the content-based image retrieval. In this paper, we propose a new content-based image retrieval technique using color and texture information, which achieves higher retrieval efficiency. Firstly, the image is transformed from RGB space to opponent chromaticity space, and the characteristics of the color contents of an image is captured by using Zernike chromaticity distribution moments from the chromaticity space. Secondly, the texture features are extracted using a rotation-invariant and scale-invariant image descriptor in Contourlet domain, which offers an efficient and flexible approximation of early processing in the human visual system. Finally, the combination of the color and texture information provides a robust feature set for color image retrieval. Experimental results show that the proposed color image retrieval is more accurate and efficient in retrieving the user-interested images.

Ashish Tripathi, Sven Leyffer, Todd Munson, Stefan M. Wild, Visualizing and Improving the Robustness of Phase Retrieval Algorithms, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 51, 2015, Pages 815-824, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.05.205.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915010133)
Abstract: Abstract
Coherent x-ray diffractive imaging is a novel imaging technique that utilizes phase retrieval and nonlinear optimization methods to image matter at nanometer scales. We explore how the convergence properties of a popular phase retrieval algorithm, Fienup's HIO, behave by introducing a reduced dimensionality problem allowing us to visualize and quantify convergence to local minima and the globally optimal solution. We then introduce generalizations of HIO that improve upon the original algorithm's ability to converge to the globally optimal solution.
Keywords: Phase retrieval algorithms; inverse problems; nonlinear complex-valued optimization

Carmen De Maio, Giuseppe Fenza, Vincenzo Loia, Sabrina Senatore, Hierarchical web resources retrieval by exploiting Fuzzy Formal Concept Analysis, Information Processing & Management, Volume 48, Issue 3, May 2012, Pages 399-418, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2011.04.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457311000458)
Abstract: In recent years, knowledge structuring is assuming important roles in several real world applications such as decision support, cooperative problem solving, e-commerce, Semantic Web and, even in planning systems. Ontologies play an important role in supporting automated processes to access information and are at the core of new strategies for the development of knowledge-based systems. Yet, developing an ontology is a time-consuming task which often needs an accurate domain expertise to tackle structural and logical difficulties in the definition of concepts as well as conceivable relationships. This work presents an ontology-based retrieval approach, that supports data organization and visualization and provides a friendly navigation model. It exploits the fuzzy extension of the Formal Concept Analysis theory to elicit conceptualizations from datasets and generate a hierarchy-based representation of extracted knowledge. An intuitive graphical interface provides a multi-facets view of the built ontology. Through a transparent query-based retrieval, final users navigate across concepts, relations and population.
Keywords: Fuzzy Formal Concept Analysis; Fuzzy ontology; Lattice; Facet-based navigation; Information Retrieval

Almut Hupbach, Retrieval practice does not safeguard memories from interference-based forgetting, Learning and Motivation, Volume 49, February 2015, Pages 23-30, ISSN 0023-9690, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lmot.2015.01.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0023969015000132)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieval enhances long-term retention. However, reactivation of a memory also renders it susceptible to modifications as shown by studies on memory reconsolidation. The present study explored whether retrieval diminishes or enhances subsequent retroactive interference (RI) and intrusions. Participants learned a list of objects. Two days later, they were either asked to recall the objects, given a subtle reminder, or were not reminded of the first learning session. Then, participants learned a second list of objects or performed a distractor task. After another two days, retention of List 1 was tested. Although retrieval enhanced List 1 memory, learning a second list impaired memory in all conditions. This shows that testing did not protect memory from RI. While a subtle reminder before List 2 learning caused List 2 items to later intrude into List 1 recall, very few such intrusions were observed in the testing and the no reminder conditions. The findings are discussed in reference to the reconsolidation account and the testing effect literature, and implications for educational practice are outlined.
Keywords: Testing effect; Retrieval practice; Retroactive interference; Memory reconsolidation

Jasmin M. Kizilirmak, Frank Rösler, Patrick H. Khader, Trial-to-trial dynamics of selective long-term-memory retrieval with continuously changing retrieval targets, Brain and Cognition, Volume 90, October 2014, Pages 8-18, ISSN 0278-2626, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bandc.2014.04.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278262614000840)
Abstract: Abstract
How do we control the successive retrieval of behaviorally relevant information from long-term memory (LTM) without being distracted by other potential retrieval targets associated to the same retrieval cues? Here, we approach this question by investigating the nature of trial-by-trial dynamics of selective LTM retrieval, i.e., in how far retrieval in one trial has detrimental or facilitatory effects on selective retrieval in the following trial. Participants first learned associations between retrieval cues and targets, with one cue always being linked to three targets, forming small associative networks. In successive trials, participants had to access either the same or a different target belonging to either the same or a different cue. We found that retrieval times were faster for targets that had already been relevant in the previous trial, with this facilitatory effect being substantially weaker when the associative network changed in which the targets were embedded. Moreover, staying within the same network still had a facilitatory effect even if the target changed, which became evident in a relatively higher memory performance in comparison to a network change. Furthermore, event-related brain potentials (ERPs) showed topographically and temporally dissociable correlates of these effects, suggesting that they result from combined influences of distinct processes that aid memory retrieval when relevant and irrelevant targets change their status from trial to trial. Taken together, the present study provides insight into the different processing stages of memory retrieval when fast switches between retrieval targets are required.
Keywords: Long-term memory; Selective retrieval; Cognitive control; ERPs; SCPs; Slow waves

Zhenbao Liu, Caili Xie, Shuhui Bu, Xiao Wang, Junwei Han, Hongwei Lin, Hao Zhang, Indirect shape analysis for 3D shape retrieval, Computers & Graphics, Volume 46, February 2015, Pages 110-116, ISSN 0097-8493, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cag.2014.09.038.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0097849314001265)
Abstract: Abstract
We introduce indirect shape analysis, or ISA, where a given shape is analyzed not based on geometric or topological features computed directly from the shape itself, but by studying how external agents interact with the shape. The potential benefits of ISA are two-fold. First, agent–object interactions often reveal an object׳s function, which plays a key role in shape understanding. Second, compared to direct shape analysis, ISA, which utilizes pre-selected agents, is less affected by imperfections of, or inconsistencies between, the geometry or topology of the analyzed shapes. We employ digital human models as the external agents and develop a prototype ISA scheme for 3D shape classification and retrieval. Given a 3D model M, we compute an ISA feature vector for M by encoding how well a selected set of human models, with functional poses, can be aligned to M so as to perform the intended functions. We demonstrate the discriminability of ISA features for 3D shape retrieval and compare to state-of-the-art methods.
Keywords: Indirect shape analysis; Interacting agent; 3D shape retrieval

Nana Luo, Man Sing Wong, Wenji Zhao, Xing Yan, Fei Xiao, Improved aerosol retrieval algorithm using Landsat images and its application for PM10 monitoring over urban areas, Atmospheric Research, Volume 153, February 2015, Pages 264-275, ISSN 0169-8095, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosres.2014.08.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169809514003536)
Abstract: Abstract
Aerosol retrieval using MODerate resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) has been well researched over the past decade. However, the application is limited to global- and regional-scale studies, which may not be applicable for urban areas due to its low spatial resolution. To overcome the limitation, this paper proposed an improved aerosol retrieval algorithm for Landsat images (ImAero-Landsat) at spatial resolution of 30 m. This ImAero-Landsat algorithm has been improved in the following two aspects: (i) it does not require a comprehensive look up table and thus it is more efficient in AOT retrieval; and (ii) it can be operated in both bright and dark surfaces. The derived aerosol optical thickness (AOT) images were validated with AErosol RObotic NETwork (AERONET) measurements as well as MODIS MOD04 AOT products. Small root mean square errors (RMSEs) of 0.11 and 0.14 and mean absolute difference (MAD) of 0.07 and 0.11 between ImAero-Landsat AOT, with MODIS MOD04 and AERONET products were observed. By correlating with ground based PM10 concentrations, the ImAero-Landsat method outperforms (r2 = 0.32) than MOD04 AOT products (r2 = 0.23). In addition, the accuracy of estimating PM10 can be improved to r2 = 0.55 when the derived AOT was integrated with meteorological parameters. The accuracy is similar to the results derived from AERONET AOT (r2 = 0.62). This study offers a simple and accurate method to investigate aerosol optical thickness at detailed city-scale. Environmental authorities may use the derived methods for deriving aerosol distribution maps and pinpointing the sources of pollutants in urban areas.
Keywords: AERONET; Aerosol retrieval; Landsat image; PM10 concentrations

Thomas A. Jones, Steven Koch, Zhenglong Li, Assimilating synthetic hyperspectral sounder temperature and humidity retrievals to improve severe weather forecasts, Atmospheric Research, Volume 186, 1 April 2017, Pages 9-25, ISSN 0169-8095, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosres.2016.11.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169809516305750)
Abstract: Abstract
Assimilation of hyperspectral sounder data into numerical weather prediction (NWP) models has proven vital to generating accurate model analyses of tropospheric temperature and humidity where few conventional observations exist. Applications to storm-scale models are limited since the low temporal resolution provided by polar orbiting sensors cannot adequately sample rapidly changing environments associated with high impact weather events. To address this limitation, hyperspectral sounders have been proposed for geostationary orbiting satellites, but these have yet to be built and launched in part due to much higher engineering costs and a lack of a definite requirement for the data.

This study uses an Observation System Simulation Experiment (OSSE) approach to simulate temperature and humidity profiles from a hypothetical geostationary-based sounder from a nature run of a high impact weather event on 20 May 2013. The simulated observations are then assimilated using an ensemble adjustment Kalman filter approach, testing both hourly and 15 minute cycling to determine their relative effectiveness at improving the near storm environment. Results indicate that assimilating both temperature and humidity profiles reduced mid-tropospheric both mean and standard deviation of analysis and forecast errors compared to assimilating conventional observations alone. The 15 minute cycling generally produced the lowest errors while also generating the best 2–4 hour updraft helicity forecasts of ongoing convection. This study indicates the potential for significant improvement in short-term forecasting of severe storms from the assimilation of hyperspectral geostationary satellite data. However, more studies are required using improved OSSE designs encompassing multiple storm environments and additional observation types such as radar reflectivity to fully define the effectiveness of assimilating geostationary hyperspectral observations for high impact weather forecasting applications.
Keywords: Hyperspectral sounders; Ensemble data assimilation; Storm-scale data assimilation; OSSE

Jaclyn H. Ford, John A. Morris, Elizabeth A. Kensinger, Neural recruitment and connectivity during emotional memory retrieval across the adult life span, Neurobiology of Aging, Volume 35, Issue 12, December 2014, Pages 2770-2784, ISSN 0197-4580, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2014.05.029.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0197458014003959)
Abstract: Abstract
Although research has identified age-related changes in neural recruitment during emotional memory encoding, it is unclear whether these differences extend to retrieval. In this study, participants engaged in a recognition task during a functional magnetic resonance imaging scan. They viewed neutral titles and indicated whether each title had been presented with an image during the study phase. Neural activity and connectivity during retrieval of titles associated with positive and negative images were compared with age (treated as a continuous variable) included as a regressor of interest. Aging was associated with increased prefrontal activation for retrieval of positive and negative memories, but this pattern was more widespread for negative memories. Aging also was associated with greater negative connectivity between a left hippocampal seed region and multiple regions of prefrontal cortex, but this effect of age occurred during negative retrieval only. These findings demonstrate that age-related changes in prefrontal recruitment and connectivity during retrieval depend on memory valence. The use of a life span approach also emphasized both continuities and discontinuities in recruitment and connectivity across the adult life span, highlighting the insights to be gained from using a full life span sample.
Keywords: Memory; Retrieval; Aging; fMRI; Connectivity; Prefrontal cortex

Ursula Torres-Parejo, Jesús R. Campaña, Miguel Delgado, M. Amparo Vila, MTCIR: A multi-term tag cloud information retrieval system, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 40, Issue 14, 15 October 2013, Pages 5448-5455, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2013.04.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417413002479)
Abstract: Abstract
Processing and accessing database resources available on Internet is sometimes complex, specially when textual content is involved. A new user may need a general description of the contents available in the database in order to determine if the information is useful for his/her search needs. In this paper we present MTCIR, a system that summarizes the content of a database and provides the user with simple interfaces to access the information. The system uses a visual interface based on multi-term tag clouds, which presents the content of the database and can be used as assistance in the search process. The novelty of this approach is the underlying structure which provides the text with certain semantics and is able to retrieve the most relevant information. We test our proposal in four datasets and discuss the tag clouds obtained and the metrics computed for each of them.
Keywords: Concept search; Knowledge visualization; Multi-term tag cloud; Unstructured databases; Content identification

Jenny Bronstein, Lilian Tzivian, Perceived self-efficacy of library and information science professionals regarding their information retrieval skills, Library & Information Science Research, Volume 35, Issue 2, April 2013, Pages 151-158, ISSN 0740-8188, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lisr.2012.11.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0740818813000066)
Abstract: Abstract
This research investigated self-efficacy perceptions of Israeli library and information science (LIS) professionals regarding their information retrieval skills, examining the judgments that participants make about their own searching abilities. The study was based on Bandura's four sources of self-efficacy information: (a) past performance or mastery experiences; (b) vicarious observation of others' experiences; (c) verbal or social feedback; and, (d) affective states. An online survey presenting the Information Retrieval Self-Efficacy Scale was distributed among three existing Israeli LIS discussion groups. The questionnaire was completed by 201 LIS professionals. Findings show that participants reported a high level of self-efficacy regarding information retrieval and all four sources of self-efficacy information influenced the construction of self-efficacy beliefs. Correlations between self-efficacy perceptions and several socio-demographic variables were investigated. The data analysis revealed that men and women are impacted differently by self-efficacy information; women reported a higher score for affective states and men are more prone to frustration. Also, a significant relation was found between age and years of experience, as well as the sources that exerted more influence on participants. Older and more experienced participants reported being more impacted by their mastery experiences and their affective states. Participants in the middle of their careers reported a greater influence of social feedback on their self-perception of self-efficacy.

Selcen Çelik, Understanding the complexity of antigen retrieval of DNA methylation for immunofluorescence-based measurement and an approach to challenge, Journal of Immunological Methods, Volume 416, January 2015, Pages 1-16, ISSN 0022-1759, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jim.2014.11.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022175914003524)
Abstract: Abstract
Cytosine methylation (5-methylcytosine, 5meC) in the CpG-rich regions of the mammalian genome is an important epigenetic mechanism playing roles in transcription regulation and genomic stability. The abnormalities in DNA methylation can occur in various types of cancer and some genetic diseases. The measurement of DNA methylation is therefore important and there is a range of methodologies used to detect DNA methylation. Many methods based on bisulfite treatment appeared with a lack of specificity after recent discoveries of various modifications of methylated cytosine, however there are new treatments developed to overcome this limitation. Immunofluorescence is currently known to be able to specifically detect DNA methylation as it uses different antibodies against 5meC and its derivatives, but it is a semi-quantitative method. Immunofluorescence protocols commonly include fixation of cells followed by permeabilisation, antigen retrieval, and treatments with antibodies. Establishing the strategy for antigen retrieval of immunofluorescence is important to unmask epitopes (i.e. 5meC) from other proteins, and therefore to access the antigen of interest. There are many approaches used for antigen retrieval induced by acid, enzyme and/or heat. The selection of antigen retrieval method can depend on a variety of such antigen-based or cell-based conditions, since the dynamic structure of DNA and chromatin accounts for the complexity of involved proteins to mask the epitope. This review aims to specifically focus on the complexity of in situ detection of DNA methylation by immunofluorescence-based methods using antigen retrieval with the current understanding of DNA methylation mechanism, and suggests conditions for antigenic retrieval of 5meC epitope.
Keywords: DNA methylation; Methyl-binding proteins; Immunofluorescence; Antigen retrieval; Bisulfite sequencing

Sicheng Zhao, Lujun Chen, Hongxun Yao, Yanhao Zhang, Xiaoshuai Sun, Strategy for dynamic 3D depth data matching towards robust action retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 151, Part 2, 5 March 2015, Pages 533-543, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.03.092.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231214013940)
Abstract: Abstract
3D depth data, especially dynamic 3D depth data, offer several advantages over traditional intensity videos for expressing objects׳ actions, such as being useful in low light levels, resolving the silhouette ambiguity of actions, and being color and texture invariant. With the wide popularity of somatosensory equipment (Kinect for example), more and more dynamic 3D depth data are shared on the Internet, which results in an urgent need to retrieve these data efficiently and effectively. In this paper, we propose a generalized strategy for dynamic 3D depth data matching and apply this strategy in action retrieval task. Firstly, an improved 3D shape context descriptor (3DSCD) is proposed to extract features of each static depth frame. Then we employ dynamic time warping (DTW) to measure the temporal similarity between two 3D dynamic depth sequences. Experimental results on our collected dataset consisting of 170 dynamic 3D depth video clips show that the proposed 3DSCD has a rich descriptive power on depth data and that the method using 3DSCD and DTW achieves high matching accuracy. Finally, to address the matching efficiency problem, we utilize the bag of word (BoW) model to quantize the 3DSCD of each static depth frame into visual word packages. So the original feature matching problem is simplified into a two-histogram matching problem. The results demonstrate the matching efficiency of our proposed method, while still maintaining high matching accuracy.
Keywords: Dynamic depth data matching; Action retrieval; 3D shape context; Dynamic time warping; Bag of word; Kinect

Hongwei Wang, Aylmer L. Johnson, Rob H. Bracewell, The retrieval of structured design rationale for the re-use of design knowledge with an integrated representation, Advanced Engineering Informatics, Volume 26, Issue 2, April 2012, Pages 251-266, ISSN 1474-0346, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2012.02.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1474034612000109)
Abstract: Design knowledge can be acquired from various sources and generally requires an integrated representation for its effective and efficient re-use. Though knowledge about products and processes can illustrate the solutions created (know-what) and the courses of actions (know-how) involved in their creation, the reasoning process (know-why) underlying the solutions and actions is still needed for an integrated representation of design knowledge. Design rationale is an effective way of capturing that missing part, since it records the issues addressed, the options considered, and the arguments used when specific design solutions are created and evaluated. Apart from the need for an integrated representation, effective retrieval methods are also of great importance for the re-use of design knowledge, as the knowledge involved in designing complex products can be huge. Developing methods for the retrieval of design rationale is very useful as part of the effective management of design knowledge, for the following reasons. Firstly, design engineers tend to want to consider issues and solutions before looking at solid models or process specifications in detail. Secondly, design rationale is mainly described using text, which often embodies much relevant design knowledge. Last but not least, design rationale is generally captured by identifying elements and their dependencies, i.e. in a structured way which opens the opportunity for going beyond simple keyword-based searching. In this paper, the management of design rationale for the re-use of design knowledge is presented. The retrieval of design rationale records in particular is discussed in detail. As evidenced in the development and evaluation, the methods proposed are useful for the re-use of design knowledge and can be generalised to be used for the retrieval of other kinds of structured design knowledge.
Keywords: Knowledge management; Design rationale; Design knowledge re-use; Information retrieval

Yu-Ting Su, Pin-Yao Lin, Fu-Jen Huang, Fu-Tsai Kung, Yu-Ju Lin, Yi-Ru Tsai, Kuo-Chung Lan, Age is a major prognosticator in extremely low oocyte retrieval cycles, Taiwanese Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Volume 56, Issue 2, April 2017, Pages 175-180, ISSN 1028-4559, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tjog.2016.04.039.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1028455917300104)
Abstract: AbstractObjective
Clinical prognosis appears to be varied in females with poor ovarian response (POR), and poor responders defined by the Bologna criteria might not be sufficiently homogeneous. The aim of this study was to determine the major predictor of reproductive outcomes in extremely low oocyte retrieval cycles.
Materials and Methods
A cohort of fresh in vitro fertilization/intracytoplasmic sperm injection cycles (n = 858) was analyzed from January 2001 to September 2014. Females from whom zero, one, two, or three oocytes were retrieved following ovarian stimulation were examined. Univariate analyses were performed to determine the association of pregnancy rate with potential confounding variables. Multiple logistic regression analysis was subsequently performed to identify factors that affected the occurrence of pregnancy.
Results
The clinical pregnancy rate was higher in women aged &lt; 40 years, long protocol, and high embryo score in univariate analysis. After adjusting for confounding factors in multivariate analysis, the maternal age [odds ratio (OR) = 0.91], primary or secondary infertility (OR = 1.99), number of matured oocytes retrieved (OR = 0.64), and score of embryos transferred (OR = 1.39) were significantly associated with the clinical pregnancy rate per cycle and per transfer. In the age subgroup analysis, POR females aged &lt; 35 years significantly demonstrated the highest number of matured oocytes, embryo scores, and clinical pregnancy rates compared with POR females aged 35–40 years and ≥ 40 years.
Conclusion
This study highlights the predictive value of maternal age and embryo quality on the probability of pregnancy in females with extremely low oocyte retrieval cycles. Young females with few eggs collected can still achieve acceptable pregnancy probability as long as they have good-quality embryos. Future randomized control trials for POR using the Bologna criteria should first stratify patients into different age groups.
Keywords: age; Bologna criteria; embryo quality; poor ovarian response; stratification

Jeremy A. Elman, Brendan I. Cohn-Sheehy, Arthur P. Shimamura, Dissociable parietal regions facilitate successful retrieval of recently learned and personally familiar information, Neuropsychologia, Volume 51, Issue 4, March 2013, Pages 573-583, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2012.12.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393212005441)
Abstract: In fMRI analyses, the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) is particularly active during the successful retrieval of episodic memory. To delineate the neural correlates of episodic retrieval more succinctly, we compared retrieval of recently learned spatial locations (photographs of buildings) with retrieval of previously familiar locations (photographs of familiar campus buildings). Episodic retrieval of recently learned locations activated a circumscribed region within the ventral PPC (anterior angular gyrus and adjacent regions in the supramarginal gyrus) as well as medial PPC regions (posterior cingulated gyrus and posterior precuneus). Retrieval of familiar locations activated more posterior regions in the ventral PPC (posterior angular gyrus, LOC) and more anterior regions in the medial PPC (anterior precuneus and retrosplenial cortex). These dissociable effects define more precisely PPC regions involved in the retrieval of recent, contextually bound information as opposed to regions involved in other processes, such as visual imagery, scene reconstruction, and self-referential processing.
Keywords: Posterior parietal cortex; Episodic memory; Autobiographical memory; fMRI

B.Y. Ekren, Z. Sari, T. Lerher, Warehouse Design under Class-Based Storage Policy of Shuttle-Based Storage and Retrieval System, IFAC-PapersOnLine, Volume 48, Issue 3, 2015, Pages 1152-1154, ISSN 2405-8963, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ifacol.2015.06.239.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405896315004784)
Abstract: Abstract
In this study, we aim to find out the best rack design for shuttle-based storage and retrieval system (SBS/RS) under class-based storage policy (CSP). SBS/RS is a new technology in automated storage and retrieval system (AS/RS) which is developed for high transaction environments where mini-load AS/RS crane may not be able to keep pace with the transaction rate needed over a given number of storage locations. We consider several rack design concepts in terms of number of aisles, tiers and bays in the warehouse. The performance of the system is evaluated in terms of utilizations of lifts and storage/retrieval devices and cycle times of storage/retrieval transactions. We utilize simulation for the modeling purpose. The results indicate that CSP works better under high rise warehouse design. So, this may create less number of lifts requirement in the system. Hence, the warehouse design with CSP may tend to have lower investment cost. By this study, we also aim to provide practitioners and academia a significant insight for SBS/RS design under several rack design concepts for CSP.
Keywords: Automated storage and retrieval system; SBS/RS; class-based storage; simulation; automated warehouse

Gonzalo Navarro, Sharma V. Thankachan, Bottom-k document retrieval, Journal of Discrete Algorithms, Volume 32, May 2015, Pages 69-74, ISSN 1570-8667, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jda.2014.12.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1570866714001026)
Abstract: Abstract
We consider the problem of retrieving the k documents from a collection of strings where a given pattern P appears least often. This has potential applications in data mining, bioinformatics, security, and big data. We show that adapting the classical linear-space solutions for this problem is trivial, but the compressed-space solutions are not easy to extend. We design a new solution for this problem that matches the best-known result when using 2 | CSA | + o ( n ) bits, where CSA is a Compressed Suffix Array. Our structure answers queries in the time needed by the CSA to find the suffix array interval of the pattern plus O ( k lg ⁡ k lg ϵ ⁡ n ) accesses to suffix array cells, for any constant ϵ &gt; 0 .
Keywords: Compact data structures; Document retrieval; String collections

Karina Robles, Anabel Fraga, Jorge Morato, Juan Llorens, Towards an ontology-based retrieval of UML Class Diagrams, Information and Software Technology, Volume 54, Issue 1, January 2012, Pages 72-86, ISSN 0950-5849, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2011.07.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584911001613)
Abstract: Context
Software Reuse has always been an important area amongst software companies in order to increase their productivity and the quality of their products, but code reuse is not the only answer for this. Nowadays, reuse techniques proposals include software designs or even software specifications. Therefore, this research focuses on software design, specifically on UML Class Diagrams. A semantic technology has been applied to facilitate the retrieval process for an effective reuse.
Objective
This research proposes an ontology-based retrieval technique by semantic similarity in order to support effective retrieval process for UML Class Diagrams. Since UML Class Diagrams are a de facto standard in the design stages of a Software Development Process, a good technique is needed to reuse them, i.e. reusing during the design stage instead of just the coding stages.
Method
An application ontology modeled using UML specifications was designed to compare UML Class Diagram element types. To measure their similarity, a survey was conducted amongst UML experts. Query expansion was improved by a domain ontology supporting the retrieval phase. The calculus of minimal distances in ontologies was solved using a shortest path algorithm.
Results
The case study shows the domain ontology importance in the UML Class Diagram retrieval process as well as the importance of an element type expansion method, such as an application ontology. A correlation between the query complexity and retrieved elements has been identified, by analyzing results. Finally, a positive Return of Investment (ROI) was estimated using Poulin’s Model.
Conclusion
Because Software Reuse has not to be limited to the coding stage, approaches to reuse design stage must be developed, i.e. UML Class Diagrams reuse. This approach proposes a technique for UML Class Diagrams retrieval, which is one important step towards reuse. Semantic technology combined with information retrieval improves the retrieval results.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Ontologies; Software Reuse; Software Engineering; UML Class Diagrams

Jiayong Liang, Xiaoping Liu, Kangning Huang, Xia Li, Xun Shi, Yaning Chen, Jun Li, Improved snow depth retrieval by integrating microwave brightness temperature and visible/infrared reflectance, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 156, January 2015, Pages 500-509, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2014.10.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S003442571400426X)
Abstract: Abstract
The accuracy of snow depth retrieval by remote sensing depends heavily on the characteristics of the snow, and both passive microwave and visible/infrared sensors can contribute to the acquisition of this information. A method integrating these two remotely sensed data sets is presented in this study. Snow depth retrieval is performed using microwave brightness temperature at 19 and 37 GHz from the Special Sensor Microwave/Imager (SSM/I) and the Special Sensor Microwave Image/Sounder (SSMI/S), and visible/infrared surface reflectance from Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroadiometer (MODIS) products. Microwave brightness temperature provides information about the volume of snow pack, and visible/infrared surface reflectance can indicate snow presence and surface grain size. With these two remote sensing data sets, snow depth is retrieved by a nonlinear data mining technique, the modified sequential minimal optimization (SMO) algorithm for support vector machine (SVM) regression. The proposed method is tested by using 16,329 records of dry snow measured at 54 meteorological stations in Xinjiang, China over an area of 1.6 million km2 from 2000 to 2009. The root mean square error (RMSE), relative RMSE and the correlation coefficient of our method are 6.21 cm, 0.64 and 0.87, respectively. These results are better than those obtained using only brightness temperature data (8.80 cm, 0.90 and 0.73), the traditional spectral polarization difference (SPD) algorithm (15.07 cm, 1.54 and 0.58), a modified Chang algorithm in WESTDC (9.80 cm, 1.00 and 0.62), or the multilayer perceptron classifier of artificial neural networks (ANN) (9.23 cm, 0.94 and 0.72). The daily snow water equivalent (SWE) retrieved by this method has an RMSE of 8.05 mm and a correlation of 0.84, which are better than those of NASA NSIDC (32.87 mm and 0.47) or Globsnow (19.07 mm and 0.59). This study demonstrates that the combination of visible/infrared surface reflectance and microwave brightness temperature via an SVM regression can provide a more accurate retrieval of snow depth.
Keywords: Snow depth retrieval; Integration of multi-sensor data; Support vector machine

M. Saraclar, Ciprian Chelba, Bhuvana Ramabhadran, Editorial for the special issue on spoken content retrieval, Computer Speech & Language, Volume 28, Issue 5, September 2014, Pages 1019-1020, ISSN 0885-2308, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csl.2014.05.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0885230814000448)
Abstract: Abstract
A typical spoken content retrieval solution integrates multiple technologies that belong to the areas of automatic speech recognition and information retrieval. Due to the rich set of challenges – many of them language specific – as well as widespread impact, numerous research sites in the world are actively engaged in this research area. This special issue highlights some of the recent advances in spoken content retrieval.
Keywords: Speech retrieval; Spoken document retrieval; Spoken term detection; Keyword search

Latéfa Ghomri, Zaki Sari, Mathematical modeling of retrieval travel time for flow-rack automated storage and retrieval systems, IFAC-PapersOnLine, Volume 48, Issue 3, 2015, Pages 1906-1911, ISSN 2405-8963, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ifacol.2015.06.365.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405896315006047)
Abstract: Abstract
Automated storage/retrieval systems (AS/RS) are computer-controlled automated material handling systems, widely used in industry and warehousing systems. They have interesting advantages, the majors of which are a high throughput, efficient use of space and improvement of safety. All the disadvantages of AS/RS are related to economic factors such as high initial investments and difficulty to change layout. This implies the importance of careful design of the AS/RS by taking into account all constraints. The latter may be linked either to the AS/RS dimensions or to products. The evaluation of average travel time that the S/R machine takes to store and retrieve a product is necessary for an optimal design. The present paper is devoted to a particular configuration of AS/RS said flow-rack AS/RS. The flow-rack AS/RS consists of only one deep rack and two machines; the first is used for storing operations and the second for retrieval operations. Our aim is to model mathematically the average travel time of the retrieval machine under random storage. The mathematical model proposed hereunder is certainly function of the physical parameters of the flow-rack AS/RS such as length, width, depth, etc.; but it is also function of the variety of products stored in the system and of their proportions. The mathematical model could be useful for performance evaluation and for design considerations of the flow-rack AS/RS in real world applications. The validation of the model is done by simulation.
Keywords: Automated storage/retrieval systems; average retrieval time; modeling; simulation

Miguel Arevalillo-Herráez, Francesc J. Ferri, Salvador Moreno-Picot, Improving distance based image retrieval using non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm, Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 53, 1 February 2015, Pages 109-117, ISSN 0167-8655, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2014.05.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167865514001561)
Abstract: Abstract
Relevance feedback has been adopted as a standard in Content Based Image Retrieval (CBIR). One major difficulty that algorithms have to face is to achieve and adequate balance between the exploitation of already known areas of interest and the exploration of the feature space to find other relevant areas. In this paper, we evaluate different ways to combine two existing relevance feedback methods that place unequal emphasis on exploration and exploitation, in the context of distance-based methods. The hybrid approach proposed has been evaluated by using three image databases of various sizes that use different descriptors. Results show that the hybrid technique performs better than any of the original methods, highlighting the benefits of combining exploitation and exploration in relevance feedback tasks.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Multiobjective genetic algorithm; Relevance feedback

Bashir Salah, Omar Janeh, Tobias Bruckmann, Bernd Noche, Improving the Performance of a New Storage and Retrieval Machine Based on a Parallel Manipulator Using FMEA Analysis, IFAC-PapersOnLine, Volume 48, Issue 3, 2015, Pages 1658-1663, ISSN 2405-8963, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ifacol.2015.06.324.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405896315005637)
Abstract: Abstract
Automated Storage/Retrieval Systems (AS/RS) are computer-controlled material handling systems that can automatically store and retrieve loads with high throughput. In this work, we estimate important design parameters for a newly designed storage/retrieval (SGP-AS/RS) machine based on the specific input details to come up with an optimized design solution. The new system is based on cable- driven parallel manipulator (or wire robot) technology that is similar to a parallel Stewart-Gough platform architecture. For the reliability of such a system, a Failure Mode Effect Analysis (FMEA) is carried out to find out how much reliable is this machine as a whole based on the of DIN's EN 60812 standards. This International Standard describes methods for FMEA and helps not only to optimize the machine, but also to achieve a disturbance free operation.
Keywords: Wire Robot based Automated Storage / Retrieval System (SGP-AS/RS); Failure Mode Effect Analysis (FMEA); Performance Improvement

Catarina S. Ferreira, Alejandra Marful, Teresa Bajo, Interference resolution in face perception and name retrieval, Acta Psychologica, Volume 153, November 2014, Pages 120-128, ISSN 0001-6918, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actpsy.2014.09.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0001691814002182)
Abstract: Abstract
Selective retrieval is a rather difficult task, and especially so when one attempts to retrieve personal representations such as faces or names. Retrieval of memories under strong competition conditions is pervasive in human memory and some have suggested that inhibitory control is used to overcome interference between competing stimuli. In the present study, we used the retrieval practice paradigm to investigate if competition among personal representations (such as facial features and names) is also resolved by inhibitory mechanisms. This question is theoretically relevant, since personal representations have been said to have a special status on cognition. Moreover, some models of face recognition assume that interference can arise between different representations, but that this interference would be automatically and rapidly solved, with no need for a controlled inhibitory mechanism to act. In two experiments we showed RIF for facial features and familiar names, but only when participants had to actively retrieve some information. This suggests that personal information is subject to mechanisms of inhibitory control, which could help explain everyday life difficulties in processes such as face feature recognition or name retrieval.
Keywords: Face processing; Face naming; Inhibition; Retrieval induced forgetting

Xiang-Yang Wang, Hong-Ying Yang, Yong-Wei Li, Wei-Yi Li, Jing-Wei Chen, A new SVM-based active feedback scheme for image retrieval, Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, Volume 37, January 2015, Pages 43-53, ISSN 0952-1976, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2014.08.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197614002115)
Abstract: Abstract
Relevance feedback has emerged as a powerful tool to boost the retrieval performance in content-based image retrieval (CBIR). Support vector machine (SVM) active learning is one popular and successful technique for relevance feedback in CBIR. Despite the success, for conventional SVM active learning, the users are usually not so patience to label a large number of training instances in the relevance feedback round. To overcome this limitation, a new SVM-based active feedback using ensemble multiple classifiers is proposed in this paper. Firstly, we select the most informative images by using active learning method for user to label, and quickly learn a boundary that separates the images that satisfy the user׳s query concept from the rest of the dataset. Then, a set of moderate accurate one-class SVM classifiers are trained separately by using different sub-features vectors. Finally, we compute the weight vector of component SVM classifiers dynamically by using the parameters for positive and negative samples, and combine the results of the component classifiers to form an output code as a hypothesized solution to the overall image retrieval problem. Experiments on large databases show that the proposed algorithms are significantly more effective than the state-of-the-art approaches.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Relevance feedback; Support vector machine; Active learning; Ensemble classifiers; Output codes

Christina M. Arnholt, Daniel W. MacDonald, Richard J. Underwood, Eric P. Guyer, Clare M. Rimnac, Steven M. Kurtz, Michael A. Mont, Gregg R. Klein, Gwo-Chin Lee, Antonia F. Chen, Brian R. Hamlin, Harold E. Cates, Arthur L. Malkani, Matthew J. Kraay, Do Stem Taper Microgrooves Influence Taper Corrosion in Total Hip Arthroplasty? A Matched Cohort Retrieval Study, The Journal of Arthroplasty, Volume 32, Issue 4, April 2017, Pages 1363-1373, ISSN 0883-5403, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arth.2016.11.018.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S088354031630818X)
Abstract: AbstractBackground
Previous studies identified imprinting of the stem morphology onto the interior head bore, leading researchers to hypothesize an influence of taper topography on mechanically assisted crevice corrosion. The purpose of this study was to analyze whether microgrooved stem tapers result in greater fretting corrosion damage than smooth stem tapers.
Methods
A matched cohort of 120 retrieved head-stem pairs from metal-on-polyethylene bearings was created controlling for implantation time, flexural rigidity, apparent length of engagement, and head size. There were 2 groups of 60 heads each, mated with either smooth or microgrooved stem tapers. A high-precision roundness machine was used to measure and categorize the surface morphology. Fretting corrosion damage at the head-neck junction was characterized using the Higgs-Goldberg scoring method. Fourteen of the most damaged heads were analyzed for the maximum depth of material loss and focused ion beam cross-sectioned to view oxide and base metal.
Results
Fretting corrosion damage was not different between the 2 cohorts at the femoral head (P = .14, Mann-Whitney) or stem tapers (P = .35). There was no difference in the maximum depths of material loss between the cohorts (P = .71). Cross-sectioning revealed contact damage, signs of micro-motion, and chromium-rich oxide layers in both cohorts. Microgroove imprinting did not appear to have a different effect on the fretting corrosion behavior.
Conclusion
The results of this matched cohort retrieval study do not support the hypothesis that taper surfaces with microgrooved stems exhibit increased in vivo fretting corrosion damage or material release.
Keywords: mechanically assisted crevice corrosion; fretting; corrosion; taper; microgrooves

Santosh Kumar Vipparthi, S.K. Nagar, Expert image retrieval system using directional local motif XoR patterns, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 41, Issue 17, 1 December 2014, Pages 8016-8026, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2014.07.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417414003935)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a new image feature descriptor, namely directional local motif XoR patterns (DLMXoRPs) for image retrieval application. The proposed motif representation is entirely different from existing motif. The DLMXoRP presents a novel technique for the calculation of motif using 1 × 3 grids. The proposed motif (1 × 3) representation is having a flexible structure; hence it can able to extract all directional information. This flexibility is not present in the existing (2 × 2) motif. Further, the XoR operation is performed on the transformed new motif images which are not present in the literature (local binary patterns (LBP) and motif co-occurrence matrix (MCM)). To elevate the benefits of DLMXoRP, we compare it with the Motif XoR pattern (MXoR) which is calculated by applying the XoR operation on existing transformed motif image. The performance of the proposed method is tested by conducting three experiments on Corel-5000, Corel-10000 and MIT-VisTex databases. The results after investigation show a significant improvement in terms of average retrieval precision (ARP) and average retrieval rate (ARR) as compared to the state-of-the-art techniques for image retrieval.
Keywords: Image retrieval (IR); Local binary patterns (LBP); XoR patterns; Motif matrix; Database

Alex Papushoy, Adrian G. Bors, Image retrieval based on query by saliency content, Digital Signal Processing, Volume 36, January 2015, Pages 156-173, ISSN 1051-2004, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dsp.2014.09.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1051200414002802)
Abstract: Abstract
In this research study we propose the query by saliency content retrieval (QSCR) image retrieval method which is based on human visual attention models. The proposed methodology represents a bottom-up approach considering the human attention, both locally at the level of image regions as well as globally, for the entire image. In the proposed retrieval system, each image is segmented and a set of characteristic features is calculated for each region. A weight is assigned to each region according to its perceived saliency. The proposed methodology considers not only the salient regions but also their context in the image. Localized image similarity is evaluated using an optimization method called the Earth Mover's Distance (EMD). EMD calculates inter-region distances between images and in our algorithm it considers the local saliency as well. A global image saliency, evaluated in terms of spatially-invariant salient edges, is used as an additional term in the optimization search besides the EMD distance. Experimental results are provided for three different image databases containing a wide variety of semantic categories.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval; Human visual attention model; Saliency; Salient edges; Earth Mover's Distance

Richard Bache, Patent retrieval – A question of access, World Patent Information, Volume 33, Issue 4, December 2011, Pages 345-351, ISSN 0172-2190, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wpi.2011.06.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0172219011000950)
Abstract: The development of models and systems in Information Retrieval (IR) has been driven by the empirical measurement of effectiveness. However, in recall-oriented domains such as patent search where there is a significant cost of missing a relevant document, standard IR effectiveness measurement only reveals part of the truth. Since credible estimates of recall are not available, it is difficult to evaluate or design systems for this domain. Here, we propose a measure of corpus access, retrievability, and show using four large patent corpora that it can be used both to evaluate models for patent retrieval and also the corpora themselves for the ease with which a document can be retrieved.
Keywords: Evaluation; Retrievability; Patent; Information retrieval; Recall-oriented domain; Corpus access; Non-Boolean; Hybrid systems

Malay Kumar Kundu, Manish Chowdhury, Samuel Rota Bulò, A graph-based relevance feedback mechanism in content-based image retrieval, Knowledge-Based Systems, Volume 73, January 2015, Pages 254-264, ISSN 0950-7051, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2014.10.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705114003761)
Abstract: Abstract
Content-Based Image Retrieval (CBIR) is an important problem in the domain of digital data management. There is indeed a growing availability of images, but unfortunately the traditional metadata-based search systems are unable to properly exploit their visual information content. In this article we introduce a novel CBIR scheme that abstracts each image in the database in terms of statistical features computed using the Multi-scale Geometric Analysis (MGA) of Non-subsampled Contourlet Transform (NSCT). Noise resilience is one of the main advantages of this feature representation. To improve the retrieval performance and reduce the semantic gap, our system incorporates a Relevance Feedback (RF) mechanism that uses a graph-theoretic approach to rank the images in accordance with the user’s feedback. First, a graph of images is constructed with edges reflecting the similarity of pairs of images with respect to the proposed feature representation. Then, images are ranked at each feedback round in terms of the probability that a random walk on this graph reaches an image tagged as relevant by the user before hitting a non-relevant one. Experimental analyses on three different databases show the effectiveness of our algorithm compared to state-of-the-art approaches in particular when the images are corrupted with different types of noise.
Keywords: NSCT; Content based image retrieval; Re-ranking; Relevance feedback; Feature evaluation index

Pooja K. Agarwal, Laura D’Antonio, Henry L. Roediger III, Kathleen B. McDermott, Mark A. McDaniel, Classroom-based programs of retrieval practice reduce middle school and high school students’ test anxiety, Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition, Volume 3, Issue 3, September 2014, Pages 131-139, ISSN 2211-3681, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jarmac.2014.07.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S221136811400059X)
Abstract: Abstract
When retrieval practice is applied in classroom settings, do K-12 students experience changes in test anxiety? To answer this question frequently asked by educators, we surveyed 1408 middle school and high school students about their study strategy preferences and their reactions to a classroom-based program of retrieval practice. For classes in which retrieval practice occurred, 92% of students reported that retrieval practice helped them learn and 72% reported that retrieval practice made them less nervous for unit tests and exams. This study is the first to examine the relationship between retrieval practice and classroom test anxiety, and self-reported study strategy use in pre-college students. In light of our results, we encourage K-12 teachers to use retrieval practice in their classrooms to reduce test anxiety and improve learning.
Keywords: Retrieval practice; Study strategies; Test anxiety; Middle school; High school; Teaching

Wen Chen, Xudong Chen, Iterative phase retrieval for simultaneously generating two phase-only masks with silhouette removal in interference-based optical encryption, Optics Communications, Volume 331, 15 November 2014, Pages 133-138, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2014.05.064.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401814005392)
Abstract: Abstract
We propose a novel method using iterative phase retrieval for simultaneously generating two phase-only masks with silhouette removal in interference-based optical encryption system. Different from previous works, an iterative phase retrieval algorithm is developed for simultaneously generating two phase-only masks in the different optical paths, and no additional keys (or masks) or complementary algorithms are required. Silhouette problem inherent in conventional interference-based encryption method is fully resolved, and the higher security can be correspondingly achieved.
Keywords: Optical encryption; Phase retrieval; Interference

Katya Krieger-Redwood, Elizabeth Jefferies, TMS interferes with lexical-semantic retrieval in left inferior frontal gyrus and posterior middle temporal gyrus: Evidence from cyclical picture naming, Neuropsychologia, Volume 64, November 2014, Pages 24-32, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2014.09.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393214003194)
Abstract: Abstract
We used TMS to investigate the contribution of left inferior frontal gyrus (LIFG) and posterior middle temporal gyrus (pMTG) to lexical/semantic selection and retrieval processes using a cyclical naming paradigm. Participants named pictures that were presented repeatedly across six cycles, either in semantically related or unrelated sets. Previous research has suggested that selection demands are higher for related sets, especially after repetition, since participants experience competition from the activation of semantic neighbours. In contrast, retrieval demands are greater for unrelated sets in the absence of semantic priming, particularly on the first cycle when the target names have not been previously activated. Therefore, this paradigm can reveal independent effects of (i) retrieval demands (i.e., the ease of accessing picture names from visual input) and (ii) selection/competition. We found that rTMS to LIFG and pMTG produced similar behavioural effects: stimulation of both sites disrupted picture naming performance on early cycles (when participants were less practised at producing the picture names) and for semantically-related sets (when there was the potential for increased competition and yet also facilitation from semantic neighbours). There were no effects of TMS when either retrieval or selection requirements were maximal on their own. The data therefore support the view that both LIFG and pMTG contribute to picture name retrieval, with both sites playing a critical role in mediating the semantic facilitation of naming when retrieval demands are high.
Keywords: Semantic; Selection; Retrieval; TMS; Naming

Nicole A.M.C. Goossens, Gino Camp, Peter P.J.L. Verkoeijen, Huib K. Tabbers, Rolf A. Zwaan, The benefit of retrieval practice over elaborative restudy in primary school vocabulary learning, Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition, Volume 3, Issue 3, September 2014, Pages 177-182, ISSN 2211-3681, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jarmac.2014.05.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211368114000473)
Abstract: Abstract
The testing effect is the phenomenon that retrieval practice of learning material after studying enhances long-term retention more than restudying. We examined retrieval practice in primary school vocabulary learning in two experiments. Nine-year-old children studied word definitions and completed exercises according to three learning conditions: pure restudy, elaborative restudy or retrieval practice. Children in the pure restudy condition reread and partly copied the definitions. In the elaborative restudy condition children reread the definitions and connected semantically related words to the target words. Children in the retrieval practice condition recalled the words based on their definitions. Overall, on the fill-in-the-blank test after one week children in the retrieval practice condition outperformed children in the other conditions, but on the multiple-choice test there were no differences. Retrieval practice may be effective for primary school vocabulary learning, but there is uncertainty about the practical value and the magnitude of the retrieval practice effect.
Keywords: Elaborative exercises; Memory; Retrieval practice; Testing effect; Vocabulary learning

Vincenzo Tedesco, Rheall F. Roquet, John DeMis, Cristiano Chiamulera, Marie-H. Monfils, Extinction, applied after retrieval of auditory fear memory, selectively increases zinc-finger protein 268 and phosphorylated ribosomal protein S6 expression in prefrontal cortex and lateral amygdala, Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, Volume 115, November 2014, Pages 78-85, ISSN 1074-7427, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nlm.2014.08.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1074742714001610)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieval of consolidated memories induces a labile phase during which memory can be disrupted or updated through a reconsolidation process. A central component of behavioral updating during reconsolidation using a retrieval–extinction manipulation (Ret + Ext) is the synaptic removal of a calcium-permeable-α-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate receptor (CP-AMPARs) in the lateral amygdala—a metabotropic GluR1 receptor (mGluR1) dependent mechanism. In the present study, we investigate the effect of Ret + Ext on the expression of molecular markers that could play a role in the reconsolidation process. Specifically, we tested the effects of Ret + Ext on the global expression of zinc-finger 268 protein (Zif268), a marker previously found to be implicated in memory reconsolidation, to confirm its occurrence after retrieval (Ret) and Ret + Ext. We also evaluated the global expression of phosphorylated ribosomal protein S6 (rpS6P), here proposed as a marker of the mGluR1-mediated memory process induced by Ret + Ext. The expression of both markers (zif268, rpS6P) was assessed by immunolocalization in prelimbic cortex (PRL), infralimbic cortex (IL), ventral subdivision of the lateral amygdala (LA) and hippocampus CA1 (CA1) in fear-conditioned rats. Our results showed that retrieval and Ret + Ext, but not extinction alone, increased Zif268 expression in prefrontal cortex and lateral amygdala. Ret + Ext, but not retrieval, retrieval followed by context exposure or extinction alone, increased the expression of rpS6P in prefrontal cortex and LA. In summary, (i) Zif268 increased after retrieval confirming that reconsolidation is engaged in our conditions, (ii) Zif268 increased after Ret + Ext confirming that it does not simply reflect an extinction or reconsolidation disruption (Zif268 level of expression should be lower in both cases) and (iii) rpS6P increased after Ret + Ext, but not after extinction, suggesting, as expected, a potential mGluR1 mediated molecular mechanism specific for Ret + Ext. Together with the Zif268 increase, our results suggest that the Ret + Ext induced memory process is more similar to reconsolidation updating than extinction facilitation.
Keywords: Fear conditioning; Retrieval; Extinction; Reconsolidation; rpS6P; Zif268; Prefrontal cortex; Amygdala

Dabin Ji, Jiancheng Shi, Chuan Xiong, Tianxing Wang, Yuhuan Zhang, A total precipitable water retrieval method over land using the combination of passive microwave and optical remote sensing, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 191, 15 March 2017, Pages 313-327, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2017.01.028.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425717300408)
Abstract: Abstract
Atmospheric water vapor plays an important role in hydrologic cycle and climate change of the Earth. A number of studies have focused on retrieval of the total precipitable water (TPW) using microwave or optical remote sensing. In this paper, the global quarter-degree gridded TPW over land was retrieved using water vapor sensitivity parameter ∆ Tb18.7/∆ Tb23.8 based on the combination of AMSR-E and MODIS observations. There are two major improvements in the retrieval algorithm, including optimization of the estimation model of surface emissivity ∆ ε18.7/∆ ε23.8 and correction of the terrain influence to the retrieval of TPW using DEM. To obtain a high resolution TPW, we also developed an algorithm to downscale the retrieved quarter-degree gridded TPW to a fine scale of 0.05° × 0.05° using DEM and NDVI. In addition, the downscaled TPW was further calibrated using high precision TPW from MODIS in the clear-sky condition to improve its accuracy. Finally, both quarter-degree and 0.05° × 0.05° gridded TPW were validated against SuomiNet GPS retrieved TPW on a global scale. The RMSE for the retrieved quarter-degree gridded global TPW is 3.45 mm, with a correlation coefficient of 0.95. In addition, the RMSE for the downscaled 0.05° × 0.05° gridded global TPW is 4.18 mm, with a correlation coefficient of 0.95. An obvious advantage of our algorithm compared with MODIS TPW product is that it can retrieve TPW under cloudy sky condition over land. The algorithm developed in this study can be easily transferred to AMSR2 on board GCOM-W1 and provides the long-term global daily TPW over land since the launch of Aqua to present day to support hydrologic cycle and climate change studies.
Keywords: Total precipitable water; Surface emissivity; Microwave remote sensing; Downscaling; Passive microwave radiometer

Lorenzo Guerrieri, Luca Merucci, Stefano Corradini, Sergio Pugnaghi, Evolution of the 2011 Mt. Etna ash and SO2 lava fountain episodes using SEVIRI data and VPR retrieval approach, Journal of Volcanology and Geothermal Research, Volume 291, 15 January 2015, Pages 63-71, ISSN 0377-0273, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvolgeores.2014.12.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0377027314003977)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper an estimation is made of the temporal evolution of volcanic ash and sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions from Mt. Etna during its eruption phases. The retrieval is performed using MSG-SEVIRI (Meteosat Second Generation — Spinning Enhanced Visible and Infra Red Imager) images in the TIR (Thermal InfraRed) spectral range. The ash and SO2 plume abundance maps are computed using the Volcanic Plume Removal (VPR) procedure originally applied to MODIS (Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer) sensors on board the NASA Terra and Aqua satellites. As test cases, two 2011 lava fountain episodes were considered. The set of parameters required by VPR for the Mt. Etna volcano, Volz type particles, and the SEVIRI sensor are presented. Once the parameters have been computed, the VPR approach requires as input only the SEVIRI-TIR radiances of the bands centered at 8.7, 10.8, and 12.0 μm, together with the plume temperature and altitude. The VPR returns maps of plume particles' effective radius, aerosol optical depth at 550 nm, and columnar abundance of ash and SO2. A new procedure for estimating wind speed and direction is also presented. Since the ash and SO2 abundance maps, and wind speed at the plume altitude are known, it is possible to reconstruct the ash and SO2 fluxes emitted during the eruption through time. The VPR procedure, applied to TIR SEVIRI data, allows for fast and reliable ash and SO2 retrieval with high temporal resolution during both day and night, and is thus suitable for operational use during a volcanic crisis.
Keywords: Remote sensing; Thermal-infrared radiation (TIR); Volcanic ash and SO2 retrieval; Multispectral satellite data

Zhi-peng Wang, Shuai Zhang, Hong-zhao Liu, Yi Qin, Single-intensity-recording optical encryption technique based on phase retrieval algorithm and QR code, Optics Communications, Volume 332, 1 December 2014, Pages 36-41, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2014.06.070.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401814006178)
Abstract: Abstract
Based on phase retrieval algorithm and QR code, a new optical encryption technology that only needs to record one intensity distribution is proposed. In this encryption process, firstly, the QR code is generated from the information to be encrypted; and then the generated QR code is placed in the input plane of 4-f system to have a double random phase encryption. For only one intensity distribution in the output plane is recorded as the ciphertext, the encryption process is greatly simplified. In the decryption process, the corresponding QR code is retrieved using phase retrieval algorithm. A priori information about QR code is used as support constraint in the input plane, which helps solve the stagnation problem. The original information can be recovered without distortion by scanning the QR code. The encryption process can be implemented either optically or digitally, and the decryption process uses digital method. In addition, the security of the proposed optical encryption technology is analyzed. Theoretical analysis and computer simulations show that this optical encryption system is invulnerable to various attacks, and suitable for harsh transmission conditions.
Keywords: Optical encryption; Phase retrieval algorithm; QR code; Security

Zhaoqiang Xia, Xiaoyi Feng, Jinye Peng, Jun Wu, Jianping Fan, A regularized optimization framework for tag completion and image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 147, 5 January 2015, Pages 500-508, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.06.028.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231214007747)
Abstract: Abstract
With the fast expansion of social image sharing websites, the tag-based image retrieval (TBIR) becomes important and prevalent for Internet users to search the social images. However, some user-provided tags of social images are too incomplete and ambiguous to facilitate the social image retrieval. In this paper, we propose a regularized optimization framework to complete the missing tags for social images (tag completion). Within the regularized optimization framework, the non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) and the holistic visual diversity minimization are used jointly to make the tag-image matrix completed as the relationships of images and tags are represented to a tag-image matrix. The non-negative matrix factorization casts the tag-image matrix into a latent low-rank space and utilizes the semantic relevance of tags to partially complete the insufficient tags. To take the visual content of images into account, the other objective term representing the holistic visual diversity is appended with the NMF to leverage the content-similar images. Moreover, to ensure the proper corrections and sparseness of tag-image matrix, two regularized factors are also included into the optimization framework. Through conducting the experiments on the benchmark image set with the adequate ground truth, we verify the effectiveness of our proposed approach.
Keywords: Tag completion; Social image; Non-negative matrix factorization; Visual diversity; Image retrieval

Xi Chen, Zhengli Liao, Yin Ting Wong, Yiping Guo, Jufang He, Time course of the dependence of associative memory retrieval on the entorhinal cortex, Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, Volume 116, December 2014, Pages 155-161, ISSN 1074-7427, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nlm.2014.10.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1074742714001828)
Abstract: Abstract
As the gateway between the hippocampal system and the neocortex, the entorhinal cortex (EC) is hypothesized to be the hub in which the transformation of recent memory to remote memory is processed. We explored the role of the EC on the retrieval of recent and remote associative fear memory. A within-subject approach was adopted to compare the freezing rates of rats in EC intact and EC inactivated conditions following trace fear conditioning. The EC was inactivated by infusing an AMPA antagonist. The fear conditioning used a combined visual and auditory conditioned stimulus with a foot shock. On week 1 following the conditioning, the rats in the EC intact condition exhibited a freezing rate of 92.4 ± 9.5% in response to the light stimulus compared with a 6.3 ± 7.9% freezing rate in the EC inactivated condition. The freezing rates were 87.0 ± 17.8% and 4.7 ± 6.5% on week 2 in the EC intact and inactivated conditions, respectively. These results indicate that the EC participates in the retrieval of associative memory. Extinction of the fear memory was observed in the EC intact condition, as the mean freezing rate decreased to 62.7 ± 23.0% on week 4 and 41.2 ± 26.4% on week 5. However, the freezing rate increased to 26.8 ± 14.2% on week 4 and 22.3 ± 14.4% on week 5 in the EC inactivated condition. The normalized dependence of fear memory retrieval on the EC was 93.2 ± 8.3% on week 1, and significantly decreased on weeks 4 and 5. In summary, the retrieval of associative memory depends on the EC, but this dependence decreases over time.
Keywords: Medial temporal lobe; Hippocampus; Recent memory; Remote memory; Memory encoding and retrieval

Sana Fakhfakh, Mohamed Tmar, Walid Mahdi, Image Retrieval Based on Using Hamming Distance, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 73, 2015, Pages 320-327, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.12.040.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915035012)
Abstract: Abstract
The expeditious development of images volume on applications recent creates the need for emergence of new indexing and retrieval tools that facilitate access to relevant need. In this paper, we tried to create a visual vocabulary from phase extraction of descriptors such as color, texture, interest points. The method is to assign a signature to each image in collection. The extraction of signature is based on application of Haar wavelet multiscale, Harris interest points and analyzing color histogram. This signature will undergo a size reduction step by using the PCA (Principal Component Analysis). The signature of each image passes through a stage of binarization. This binary code obtained need using Hamming distance in the similarity matching. Experiments are undertaken into four data sets “Caltech101”, “Caltech256”, “ImageCLEF 2013” and “ImageCLEF 2014”. The obtained results showed effectiveness of our approach.
Keywords: Content; binary signature; image retrieval; hamming distance; visual descriptor

Christopher J. Schilling, Benjamin C. Storm, Michael C. Anderson, Examining the costs and benefits of inhibition in memory retrieval, Cognition, Volume 133, Issue 2, November 2014, Pages 358-370, ISSN 0010-0277, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cognition.2014.07.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010027714001401)
Abstract: Abstract
Inhibitory control is thought to serve an adaptive function in controlling behavior, with individual differences predicting variation in numerous cognitive functions. However, inhibition is more properly construed as inducing both benefits and costs to performance. Benefits arise at the point when inhibition prevents expression of an unwanted or contextually inappropriate response; costs arise later, when access to the inhibited representation is required by other processes. Here we illustrate how failure to consider both the costs and benefits of inhibition has generated confusion in the literature on individual differences in cognitive control. Using retrieval-induced forgetting as a model case, we illustrate this by showing that changing the way that retrieval-induced forgetting is measured to allow greater expression of the benefits of inhibition together with the costs can reduce and even reverse the theoretically predicted correlation between motor and memory inhibition. Specifically, we show that when the final test in a retrieval-induced forgetting procedure employs item-specific cues (i.e., category-plus-stem cued recall and item-recognition) that better isolate the lingering costs of inhibition, better motor response inhibition (faster stop-signal reaction times) predicts greater retrieval-induced forgetting. In striking contrast, when the final test is less well controlled, allowing both the costs and benefits of inhibition to contribute, motor response inhibition has the opposite relationship with retrieval-induced forgetting. These findings underscore the importance of considering the correlated costs and benefits problem when studying individual differences in inhibitory control. More generally, they suggest that a shared inhibition mechanism may underlie people’s ability to control memories and actions.
Keywords: Retrieval-induced forgetting; Inhibition; Interference; Stop-signal reaction time

Rachel J. Anderson, Stephen A. Dewhurst, Graham M. Dean, Direct and generative retrieval of autobiographical memories: The roles of visual imagery and executive processes, Consciousness and Cognition, Volume 49, March 2017, Pages 163-171, ISSN 1053-8100, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.concog.2017.02.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053810016301969)
Abstract: Abstract
Two experiments used a dual task methodology to investigate the role of visual imagery and executive resources in the retrieval of specific autobiographical memories. In Experiment 1, dynamic visual noise led to a reduction in the number of specific memories retrieved in response to both high and low imageability cues, but did not affect retrieval times. In Experiment 2, irrelevant pictures reduced the number of specific memories but only in response to low imageability cues. Irrelevant pictures also increased response times to both high and low imageability cues. The findings are in line with previous work suggesting that disrupting executive resources may impair generative, but not direct, retrieval of autobiographical memories. In contrast, visual distractor tasks appear to impair access to specific autobiographical memories via both the direct and generative retrieval routes, thereby highlighting the potential role of visual imagery in both pathways.
Keywords: Autobiographical memory; Visual imagery; Visual working memory; Dual task paradigm

Li Zhuo, Bo Cheng, Jing Zhang, A comparative study of dimensionality reduction methods for large-scale image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 141, 2 October 2014, Pages 202-210, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.03.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231214004238)
Abstract: Abstract
“Curse of Dimensionality” is one of the important problems that Content-Based Image Retrieval (CBIR) confronts. Dimensionality reduction is an effective method to overcome it. In this paper, six commonly-used dimensionality reduction methods are compared and analyzed to examine their respective performance in image retrieval. The six methods include Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Fisher Linear Discriminant Analysis (FLDA), Local Fisher Discriminant Analysis (LFDA), Isometric Mapping (ISOMAP), Locally Linear Embedding (LLE), and Locality Preserving Projections (LPP). For comparison, Scale Invariant Feature Transform (SIFT) and color histogram in Hue, Saturation, Value (HSV) color space are firstly extracted as image features, meanwhile SIFT feature extraction procedure is optimized to reduce the number of SIFT features. Then, PCA, FLDA, LFDA, ISOMAP, LLE, and LPP are respectively applied to reduce the dimensions of feature vectors, which can be used to generate vocabulary trees. Finally, we can process large-scale image retrieval based on the inverted index built by vocabulary trees. In the experiments, the performance of various dimensionality reduction methods are analyzed comprehensively by comparing the retrieval performance, advantages and disadvantages, computational complexity and time-consuming of image retrieval. Through a series of experiments, we can conclude that dimensionality reduction method of LLE and LPP can effectively reduce computational complexity of image retrieval, while maintaining high retrieval performance.
Keywords: Large-scale image retrieval; Dimensionality reduction; OPTIMIZED SIFT; HSV histogram; Vocabulary tree

Sophie Bauduin, Lieven Clarisse, Michael Theunissen, Maya George, Daniel Hurtmans, Cathy Clerbaux, Pierre-François Coheur, IASI's sensitivity to near-surface carbon monoxide (CO): Theoretical analyses and retrievals on test cases, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 189, March 2017, Pages 428-440, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2016.12.022.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407316303442)
Abstract: Abstract
Separating concentrations of carbon monoxide (CO) in the boundary layer from the rest of the atmosphere with nadir satellite measurements is of particular importance to differentiate emission from transport. Although thermal infrared (TIR) satellite sounders are considered to have limited sensitivity to the composition of the near-surface atmosphere, previous studies show that they can provide information on CO close to the ground in case of high thermal contrast. In this work we investigate the capability of IASI (Infrared Atmospheric Sounding Interferometer) to retrieve near-surface CO concentrations, and we quantitatively assess the influence of thermal contrast on such retrievals. We present a 3-part analysis, which relies on both theoretical forward simulations and retrievals on real data, performed for a large range of negative and positive thermal contrast situations. First, we derive theoretically the IASI detection threshold of CO enhancement in the boundary layer, and we assess its dependence on thermal contrast. Then, using the optimal estimation formalism, we quantify the role of thermal contrast on the error budget and information content of near-surface CO retrievals. We demonstrate that, contrary to what is usually accepted, large negative thermal contrast values (ground cooler than air) lead to a better decorrelation between CO concentrations in the low and the high troposphere than large positive thermal contrast (ground warmer than the air). In the last part of the paper we use Mexico City and Barrow as test cases to contrast our theoretical predictions with real retrievals, and to assess the accuracy of IASI surface CO retrievals through comparisons to ground-based in-situ measurements.
Keywords: IASI; Carbon monoxide; Thermal contrast; Vertical sensitivity; Planetary boundary layer

Donna J. Bridge, Joel L. Voss, Active retrieval facilitates across-episode binding by modulating the content of memory, Neuropsychologia, Volume 63, October 2014, Pages 154-164, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2014.08.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393214002875)
Abstract: Abstract
The contents of memory can be updated when information from the current episode is bound with content retrieved from previous episodes. Little is known regarding factors that determine the memory content that is subject to this across-episode binding. We tested whether across-episode binding preferentially occurs for memory content that is currently “active” and identified relevant neural correlates. After studying objects at specific locations on scene backgrounds, subjects performed one of two retrieval tasks for the objects on different scene backgrounds. In an active condition, subjects recalled object locations, whereas subjects merely dragged objects to predetermined locations in a passive condition. Immediately following each object-location retrieval event, a novel face appeared on a blank screen. We hypothesized that the original episode content would be active in memory during face encoding in the active condition, but not in the passive condition (despite seeing the same content in both conditions). A ramification of the active condition would thus be preferential binding of original episode content to novel faces, with no such across-episode binding in the passive condition. Indeed, memory for faces was better when tested on the original background scenes in the active relative to passive condition, indicating that original episode content was bound with the active condition faces, whereas this occurred to a lesser extent for the passive condition faces. Likewise, early-onset negative ERP effects reflected binding of the face to the original episode content in the active but not the passive condition. In contrast, binding in the passive condition occurred only when faces were physically displayed on the original scenes during recognition testing, and a very similar early-onset negative ERP effect signaled binding in this condition. ERP correlates of binding were thus similar for across-episode and within-episode binding (and were distinct from other encoding and retrieval ERP signals in both cases), indicating that active retrieval modulated when binding occurred, not the nature of the binding process per se. These results suggest that active retrieval promotes binding of new information with contents of memory, whereas without active retrieval, these unrelated pieces of information might be bound only when they are physically paired.
Keywords: Retrieval; Active learning; ERP; Recognition; Binding; Reactivation

Alessandra Alaniz Macedo, Juliana Tarossi Pollettini, José Augusto Baranauskas, Julia Carmona Almeida Chaves, A Health Surveillance Software Framework to deliver information on preventive healthcare strategies, Journal of Biomedical Informatics, Volume 62, August 2016, Pages 159-170, ISSN 1532-0464, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2016.06.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046416300454)
Abstract: Abstract
A software framework can reduce costs related to the development of an application because it allows developers to reuse both design and code. Recently, companies and research groups have announced that they have been employing health software frameworks. This paper presents the design, proof-of-concept implementations and experimentation of the Health Surveillance Software Framework (HSSF). The HSSF is a framework that tackles the demand for the recommendation of surveillance information aiming at supporting preventive healthcare strategies. Examples of such strategies are the automatic recommendation of surveillance levels to patients in need of healthcare and the automatic recommendation of scientific literature that elucidates epigenetic problems related to patients. HSSF was created from two systems we developed in our previous work on health surveillance systems: the Automatic-SL and CISS systems. The Automatic-SL system aims to assist healthcare professionals in making decisions and in identifying children with developmental problems. The CISS service associates genetic and epigenetic risk factors related to chronic diseases with patient’s clinical records. Towards evaluating the HSSF framework, two new systems, CISS+ and CISS-SW, were created by means of abstractions and instantiations of the framework (design and code). We show that HSSF supported the development of the two new systems given that they both recommend scientific papers using medical records as queries even though they exploit different computational technologies. In an experiment using simulated patients’ medical records, we show that CISS, CISS+, and CISS-SW systems recommended more closely related and somewhat related documents than Google, Google Scholar and PubMed. Considering recall and precision measures, CISS+ surpasses CISS-SW in terms of precision.
Keywords: Software framework; Reuse; Biomedical informatics; Information extraction; Retrieval and application of biomedical knowledge and information; Recommender systems: medical records and scientific papers; Ontology

Esmat Rashedi, Hossein Nezamabadi-pour, Saeid Saryazdi, Long term learning in image retrieval systems using case based reasoning, Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, Volume 35, October 2014, Pages 26-37, ISSN 0952-1976, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2014.06.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197614001316)
Abstract: Abstract
Relevance feedback is a powerful tool emerged to boost the retrieval performance of content based image retrieval (CBIR) systems. Short term learning (STL) and long term learning (LTL) are two learning methods of relevance feedback scheme. This paper presents a long term learning method in CBIR systems adopting case based reasoning (CBR) which is called Case-based LTL (CB-LTL). The method has two stages of learning and reasoning. In the learning stage, information extracted from retrieval sessions is saved as cases and in the reasoning stage, information of cases is utilized to improve the results of the retrieval sessions. The main components of CB-LTL method are ‘key of query’ which represents the desire of the user, a ‘trigger function’ which is used to find a similar case with a query, and ‘semantic frame’ which is a structure for saving cases. In the proposed method, cases are recorded in the case knowledge base using both low level and high level features. The information of the relevance feedback and short term learning are employed as high level features. In this paper, the general approach of CB-LTL is produced and an example of the method is implemented in a CBIR system with the similarity refinement based STL. To evaluate the proposed method, a comparative study with the “virtual feature based” LTL method is performed based on the Corel image dataset. The experimental results validate the effectiveness of Case-based LTL method empirically.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval; Relevance feedback; Long term learning; Case based reasoning; Semantic frame

Borja García De Soto, Bryan T. Adey, Investigation of the Case-based Reasoning Retrieval Process to Estimate Resources in Construction Projects, Procedia Engineering, Volume 123, 2015, Pages 169-181, ISSN 1877-7058, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.proeng.2015.10.074.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877705815031756)
Abstract: Abstract
Case-based reasoning (CBR) is a methodology that is seeing increasing use to make predictions during the early phases of a project. It allows estimators to exploit existing knowledge to make predictions that are considerably better than without its use. All CBR, however, is not identical, and variations in how CBR is done can affect the accuracy of the predictions. One particular area of sensitivity is the retrieval phase, i.e. the way in which the CBR determines the closeness between the new and the existing cases.

In this paper, CBR is used to make estimates of resources for construction projects, and the use of the nearest neighbor technique to identify the similarity for the retrieval phase to predict the construction material quantities (CMQs) in concrete structures is investigated. Two types of distances, i.e. 1) the City-block distance and 2) the Euclidean distance, and four different types of weights, based on regression analysis and feature counting, to account for the relative importance of the different parameters, are investigated. The four different types of weights used were 1) the adjusted unstandardized coefficients from the regression models, 2) the unadjusted unstandardized coefficients from the regression models, 3) the standardized coefficients from the regression models, and 4) equal weights (i.e., feature counting), in which the weights applied are 1/k, and k is the number of parameter being compared to determine the distance.

The mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) was used to evaluate each combination investigated. It was found that for a similarity threshold of 90%, the CBR methodology using the City-block distance with the adjusted unstandardized coefficients from the regression analysis models using the transformed (LN) dataset as weights, gave the best results, with a MAPE of 8.16%. The worst results were obtained from the CBR methodology using the Euclidean distance with feature counting weights, with a MAPE of 28.40%.
Keywords: artificial intelligence; case-based reasoning; preliminary estimates; resource estimates; retrieval process.

Peggy L. St. Jacques, Karl K. Szpunar, Daniel L. Schacter, Shifting visual perspective during retrieval shapes autobiographical memories, NeuroImage, Volume 148, 1 March 2017, Pages 103-114, ISSN 1053-8119, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2016.12.028.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811916307509)
Abstract: Abstract
The dynamic and flexible nature of memories is evident in our ability to adopt multiple visual perspectives. Although autobiographical memories are typically encoded from the visual perspective of our own eyes they can be retrieved from the perspective of an observer looking at our self. Here, we examined the neural mechanisms of shifting visual perspective during long-term memory retrieval and its influence on online and subsequent memories using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Participants generated specific autobiographical memories from the last five years and rated their visual perspective. In a separate fMRI session, they were asked to retrieve the memories across three repetitions while maintaining the same visual perspective as their initial rating or by shifting to an alternative perspective. Visual perspective shifting during autobiographical memory retrieval was supported by a linear decrease in neural recruitment across repetitions in the posterior parietal cortices. Additional analyses revealed that the precuneus, in particular, contributed to both online and subsequent changes in the phenomenology of memories. Our findings show that flexibly shifting egocentric perspective during autobiographical memory retrieval is supported by the precuneus, and suggest that this manipulation of mental imagery during retrieval has consequences for how memories are retrieved and later remembered.
Keywords: Egocentric perspective; Memory; fMRI; Precuneus; Repetition suppression

Ryen W. White, Rob Capra, Gene Golovchinsky, Bill Kules, Catherine Smith, Daniel Tunkelang, Introduction to special issue on human–computer information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 49, Issue 5, September 2013, Pages 1053-1057, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2013.02.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457313000162)

Ning Zhou, Jianping Fan, Automatic image–text alignment for large-scale web image indexing and retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Volume 48, Issue 1, January 2015, Pages 205-219, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2014.07.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320314002465)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, an automatic image–text alignment algorithm is developed to achieve more effective indexing and retrieval of large-scale web images by aligning web images with their most relevant auxiliary text terms or phrases. First, a large number of cross-media web pages (which contain web images and their auxiliary texts) are crawled and segmented into a set of image–text pairs (informative web images and their associated text terms or phrases). Second, near-duplicate image clustering is used to group large-scale web images into a set of clusters of near-duplicate images according to their visual similarities. The near-duplicate web images in the same cluster share similar semantics and are simultaneously associated with a same or similar set of auxiliary text terms or phrases which co-occur frequently in the relevant text blocks, thus performing near-duplicate image clustering can significantly reduce the uncertainty on the relatedness between the semantics of web images and their auxiliary text terms or phrases. Finally, random walk is performed over a phrase correlation network to achieve more precise image–text alignment by refining the relevance scores between the web images and their auxiliary text terms or phrases. Our experiments on algorithm evaluation have achieved very positive results on large-scale cross-media web pages.
Keywords: Automatic image–text alignment; Web image indexing and retrieval; Relevance re-ranking; Random walk; Phrase-correlation network

Junwei Han, Xiang Ji, Xintao Hu, Jungong Han, Tianming Liu, Clustering and retrieval of video shots based on natural stimulus fMRI, Neurocomputing, Volume 144, 20 November 2014, Pages 128-137, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2013.11.052.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231214007425)
Abstract: Abstract
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a powerful tool to probe the human brain׳s perception and cognition. Besides being extensively exploited in the clinical applications, fMRI technique is also useful to human׳s ordinary life. In this paper, we investigate a novel application of leveraging fMRI techniques to video clustering and retrieval. In the proposed work, we successfully integrate semantic human-centric features derived from natural stimulus fMRI data and low-level visual-audio features to facilitate video clustering and retrieval, which is a significant innovation compared to the previous works relying on either fMRI-derived features or low-level visual-audio features. Our system consists of several algorithmic modules. First, fMRI data when the subjects are watching video shot samples are acquired. Then a newly developed brain networks localization system is employed to locate the cortical regions of interests (ROIs) for each individual subject. The functional interactions computed by wavelet transform coherence are quantified, from which the human-centric features are derived. Afterwards, the Gaussian process regression model mapping visual-audio feature space to an fMRI-derived feature space is trained, given the training samples. The trained model is then adopted to predict fMRI-derived features for videos without the fMRI data. Finally, the multi-modal spectral clustering and multi-modal ranking algorithm are adopted and proposed to integrate these two heterogeneous features for video clustering and retrieval, respectively. Our experiment on TRECVID database has demonstrated the precision of video clustering and retrieval can be substantially improved by integration of visual-audio features and fMRI-derived features.
Keywords: Video clustering; Video retrieval; Functional magnetic resonance imaging; Feature integration

Mohamad El Haj, Jean-Louis Nandrino, Pascal Antoine, Muriel Boucart, Quentin Lenoble, Eye movement during retrieval of emotional autobiographical memories, Acta Psychologica, Volume 174, March 2017, Pages 54-58, ISSN 0001-6918, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actpsy.2017.02.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0001691817300689)
Abstract: Abstract
This study assessed whether specific eye movement patterns are observed during emotional autobiographical retrieval. Participants were asked to retrieve positive, negative and neutral memories while their scan path was recorded by an eye-tracker. Results showed that positive and negative emotional memories triggered more fixations and saccades but shorter fixation duration than neutral memories. No significant differences were observed between emotional and neutral memories for duration and amplitude of saccades. Positive and negative retrieval triggered similar eye movement (i.e., similar number of fixations and saccades, fixation duration, duration of saccades, and amplitude of saccades). Interestingly, the participants reported higher visual imagery for emotional memories than for neutral memories. The findings demonstrate similarities and differences in eye movement during retrieval of neutral and emotional memories. Eye movement during autobiographical retrieval seems to be triggered by the creation of visual mental images as the latter are indexed by autobiographical reconstruction.
Keywords: Autobiographical memory; Emotion; Eye movement; Fixations; Saccades

Guanghui Sun, Z.H. Zhu, Fractional order tension control for stable and fast tethered satellite retrieval, Acta Astronautica, Volume 104, Issue 1, November 2014, Pages 304-312, ISSN 0094-5765, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actaastro.2014.08.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094576514003191)
Abstract: Abstract
The retrieval of a tethered satellite system is intrinsically unstable. This paper develops a new control strategy to retrieve the tethered satellite system stably and quickly using the fractional order control theory. The governing equation of the tethered satellite system and classic linear feedback tension control law were first reviewed and examined as a benchmark. Then, a new fractional order tension control law has been to avoid the tethered satellite winds around the main satellite near the end of retrieval by existing integer order tension control laws. The newly proposed control law has been discretized and implemented by the Laplace transform and Tustin operator. Unlike the existing integer order control laws, which are based on the feedback of current state and memoryless, the fractional order control law has the memory of previous states and thus controls the tether retrieval more smoothly while maintaining the retrieving speed. The effectiveness and advantage of the new fractional order tension control law is demonstrated numerically by comparing with its integer order counterpart. The results show that the new control law not only retrieves the subsatellite without winding around the main satellite, but also provides a better control performance with smaller in-plane libration angles.
Keywords: Tethered satellite; Retrieval; Fractional order; Tension control; Dynamics

Karl-Heinz T. Bäuml, Andreas Schlichting, Memory retrieval as a self-propagating process, Cognition, Volume 132, Issue 1, July 2014, Pages 16-21, ISSN 0010-0277, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cognition.2014.03.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010027714000468)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieval of a subset of studied items and the presentation of those items as retrieval cues typically impair retrieval of the other items. Previous research on this self-limiting property of memory retrieval has relied heavily on short retention intervals and similar context between encoding and test. Here, we examined retrieval dynamics also after a prolonged retention interval with different spatial and social context between encoding and test, conditions that mimic people’s remembering in many situations of daily life. For both unrelated word lists and more integrated prose material, we found retrieval and cuing to impair recall of other studied items after a short retention interval, but to improve recall in the prolonged retention interval condition. The results demonstrate that retrieval dynamics depend critically on situation, indicating that quite often in daily life, retrieval may be a self-propagating, rather than a self-limiting process.
Keywords: Episodic memory; Retrieval-induced forgetting; Part-set cuing; Context; Context reactivation

Izabela Bialuk, Katarzyna Dobosz, Bartosz Potrzebowski, Maria Małgorzata Winnicka, CP55,940 attenuates spatial memory retrieval in mice, Pharmacological Reports, Volume 66, Issue 6, December 2014, Pages 931-936, ISSN 1734-1140, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pharep.2014.06.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1734114014002138)
Abstract: AbstractBackground
Cannabinoids constitute a varied group of lipophilic substances able to infiltrate the blood–brain barrier and influence neuronal processes. Clinical observations supported by experimental data have revealed that these compounds exert a deleterious effect on cognitive processes. The present study was carried out to determine the influence of a single systemic administration of CP55,940, a potent synthetic agonist of cannabinoid receptors, on spatial memory retrieval assessed in a Morris water maze.
Methods
C57BL/6J male mice were submitted to three consecutive days of training to find a hidden platform in the water maze. CP55,940 was given intraperitoneally once, at doses of 0.025, 0.125 or 0.25 mg/kg on the fourth day, 30 min before testing memory retrieval, and in separate groups before testing psychomotor activity and anxiety level in a hole-board test.
Results
CP55,940 only at the highest dose of 0.25 mg/kg significantly altered all parameters used to assess spatial memory. It increased the latency in the first crossing of the former platform location (target area), decreased the number of target area crossings and shortened the time spent in the target quadrant. Moreover, CP55,940 at doses of 0.25 and 0.125 mg/kg attenuated motor and exploratory activity in hole-board test.
Conclusion
Since the attenuated psychomotor activity after a dose of 0.125 mg/kg did not interfere with memory retrieval, we assume that the impairment of spatial memory observed after the highest dose of CP55,940 (0.25 mg/kg) was exerted by its influence on cognitive processes, however, the impact on locomotion could not be excluded.
Keywords: CP55,940; Spatial memory retrieval; Morris water maze; Hole-board test; Mice

Chenggang Clarence Yan, Liang Li, Zhan Wang, Jian Yin, Hailong Shi, Shuqiang Jiang, Qingming Huang, Fusing multi-cues description for partial-duplicate image retrieval, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 25, Issue 7, October 2014, Pages 1726-1731, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2014.06.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320314001047)
Abstract: Abstract
In traditional image retrieval, images are commonly represented using Bag-of-visual-Words (BoW) built from image local features. However, the lack of spatial and structural information suppresses its performance in applications. In this paper, we introduce a multi-cues description by fusing structural, content and spatial information for partial-duplicate image retrieval. Firstly, we propose a rotation-invariant Local Self-Similarity Descriptor (LSSD), which captures the internal structural layouts in the local textural self-similar regions around interest points. Then, based on the spatial pyramid model, we make use of both LSSD and SIFT to construct an image representation with multi-cues. Finally, we formulate the Semi-Relative Entropy as the distance metric. Comparison experiments with state-of-the-art methods on four popular databases show the efficiency and effectiveness of our approach.
Keywords: Multi-cues; Local Self-Similarity Descriptor; Spatial pyramid; Partial-duplicate image retrieval

Henri Tokola, Esko Niemi, Avoiding Fragmentation in Miniload Automated Storage and Retrieval Systems, IFAC-PapersOnLine, Volume 48, Issue 3, 2015, Pages 1973-1977, ISSN 2405-8963, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ifacol.2015.06.377.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405896315006163)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper studies detailed slotting in miniload automated storage and retrieval systems (miniload AS/RSs). The systems that are studied have a number of identical shelves and they handle cartons with different widths. The purpose is to find out a detailed slotting rule that makes utilisation high by reducing the fragmentation of the available storage space into small and unusable gaps. For this purpose, the paper constructs and analyses a detailed slotting rule which is based on a best fit rule, but which aligns the cartons being handled to both ends of the shelf and next to a longer carton. The rule is compared to the first fit rule and to different aligning options in order to validate its performance. The simulation results show that the rule thus constructed can give as much as a 10% saving in the utilisation when compared to the first fit rule without aligning. Aligning next to a longer carton instead of next to a shorter carton gives a 1% benefit.
Keywords: warehouse automation; automated storage and retrieval system; fragmentation avoidance; simulation

Juan Carlos Medina-Llamas, Alicia Elizabeth Chávez-Guajardo, Cesar Augusto Souza Andrade, Kleber Gonçalves Bezerra Alves, Celso Pinto de Melo, Use of magnetic polyaniline/maghemite nanocomposite for DNA retrieval from aqueous solutions, Journal of Colloid and Interface Science, Volume 434, 15 November 2014, Pages 167-174, ISSN 0021-9797, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2014.08.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021979714005554)
Abstract: Abstract
We demonstrated that the magnetic polyaniline/maghemite nanocomposite (Pani/γ-Fe2O3 MNC) is an efficient agent for retrieval of pure double stranded deoxyribonucleic acid (dsDNA) chains from aqueous solutions. The dsDNA chains used in the retrieval experiments were of sodium salt of Salmon Sperm DNA. Based on λ = 260 nm absorption measurements, we have employed UV–Vis spectroscopy to estimate the concentration of DNA present in solutions, before and after the interaction with the MNC. The best results corresponded to a maximum amount of 75.2 mg of DNA absorbed per gram of MNC reached within only 10 min of joint exposure into the aqueous solution. After magnetic separation of the fully DNA-loaded Pani/γ-Fe2O3 MNC, we achieved essentially complete DNA desorption by appropriate changes in the pH of the solution. We have shown that it is possible to recycle the use of these MNC in several adsorption–desorption cycles. By comparing the present results to those of other DNA retrieval systems reported in the literature, we argued that the Pani/γ-Fe2O3 MNC here described represent a promising low-cost material for use as a fast, simple and efficient method of DNA separation and concentration.
Keywords: Pani/γ-Fe2O3 magnetic nanocomposite; DNA retrieval; UV–Vis spectroscopy

Sean H.K. Kang, Harold Pashler, Is the benefit of retrieval practice modulated by motivation?, Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition, Volume 3, Issue 3, September 2014, Pages 183-188, ISSN 2211-3681, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jarmac.2014.05.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211368114000503)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieval practice tends to produce better long-term learning than rereading, but laboratory studies have typically used arbitrary material that subjects may not care to learn. The observed advantage of retrieval practice may be exaggerated because low motivation may result in deficient processing during (usually passive) rereading. Thus, when subjects are motivated to learn the material, the type of study strategy (whether retrieval practice or rereading) might be less important. To test this hypothesis, we conducted 3 experiments in which we manipulated the incentives (using monetary bonuses or time savings) for learning Swahili–English word pairs. Items that had undergone retrieval practice were better recalled than reread items on a final test 2 days later, but this effect did not interact with incentive level. These results provide some reassurance that lab findings from the testing effects literature likely generalize to real-world situations in which motivation to learn may be greater.
Keywords: Retrieval practice; Testing effects; Motivation

Bingqi Yi, Xin Huang, Ping Yang, Bryan A. Baum, George W. Kattawar, Considering polarization in MODIS-based cloud property retrievals by using a vector radiative transfer code, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 146, October 2014, Pages 540-548, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2014.05.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407314002295)
Abstract: Abstract
In this study, a full-vector, adding–doubling radiative transfer model is used to investigate the influence of the polarization state on cloud property retrievals from Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) satellite observations. Two sets of lookup tables (LUTs) are developed for the retrieval purposes, both of which provide water cloud and ice cloud reflectivity functions at two wavelengths in various sun-satellite viewing geometries. However, only one of the LUTs considers polarization. The MODIS reflectivity observations at 0.65 μm (band 1) and 2.13 μm (band 7) are used to infer the cloud optical thickness and particle effective diameter, respectively. Results indicate that the retrievals for both water cloud and ice cloud show considerable sensitivity to polarization. The retrieved water and ice cloud effective diameter and optical thickness differences can vary by as much as ±15% due to polarization state considerations. In particular, the polarization state has more influence on completely smooth ice particles than on severely roughened ice particles.
Keywords: Polarization; Cloud property retrieval; MODIS; Satellite observation; Vector radiative transfer model

Deniz Kılınç, Adil Alpkocak, An expansion and reranking approach for annotation-based image retrieval from Web, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 38, Issue 10, 15 September 2011, Pages 13121-13127, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2011.04.118.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417411006452)
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce an expansion and reranking approach for annotation based image retrieval from Web pages. Our suggestion considers an image retrieval system using the surrounding texts nearby the image in a Web page as annotations. However, annotations may include too much and uninformative text such as copyright notice, date, author. In order to choose indexing terms effectively, we propose a term selection approach, which first expands the document using WordNet, and then selects descriptive terms among them. Notably, we applied this term selection methodology to both document and query. This is because applying either of documents or query does not help to increase retrieval performance. On the other hand, term selection process increases the number of terms per documents, and both documents and queries become more exhaustive than original. Consequently, this results high recall with low precision in retrieval. Thus, we also proposed a two-level reranking approach. In order to evaluate our approaches we have participated ImageCLEF2009 WikipediaMM subtask. The results we obtained are superior to any participating approaches and our approach has obtained the best four ranks, in text-only image retrieval. The results also showed that document expansion and effective term selection to annotations plays an important role in text-based image retrieval.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Image retrieval; Query expansion; Document expansion; Reranking; WordNet

Kazem Nouri, Katharina Walch, Regina Promberger, Christine Kurz, Clemens B Tempfer, Johannes Ott, Severe haematoperitoneum caused by ovarian bleeding after transvaginal oocyte retrieval: A retrospective analysis and systematic literature review, Reproductive BioMedicine Online, Volume 29, Issue 6, December 2014, Pages 699-707, ISSN 1472-6483, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rbmo.2014.08.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1472648314004842)
Abstract: Abstract
A case series of haematoperitoneum caused by ovarian bleeding after transvaginal oocyte retrieval (TVOR) is presented and all published cases summarized. In a retrospective case series, four patients with ovarian bleeding after TVOR were included. In addition, a pooled analysis of all published cases (n = 32) who underwent surgical intervention for severe haematoperitoneum caused by ovarian bleeding after TVOR was carried out. Main outcome measures were incidence, risk factors, course and intraoperative findings. In the pooled analysis, the incidence was 0.08%. The first sign of haematoperitoneum was evident in 33.3% within the first postoperative hour, and, cumulatively, in 93.3% within 24 h. The median time between TVOR and surgical intervention was 10 h. In four patients, the ovary could not be preserved, which was associated with a longer time interval between TVOR and the onset of symptoms (median 18 h versus 2.5 h; P = 0.004) as well as between TVOR and surgical intervention (median 21.5 h versus 8.5 h; 0.004). In conclusion, severe haematoperitoneum occurs in 0.08% after TVOR. Late-onset bleeding is common. A longer time interval between TVOR and surgical intervention might put a patient at risk of ovariectomy.
Keywords: bleeding; hematoperitoneum; in-vitro fertilization; oocyte retrieval; topical hemostatic agents

Maciej Miernecki, Jean-Pierre Wigneron, Ernesto Lopez-Baeza, Yann Kerr, Richard De Jeu, Gabrielle J.M. De Lannoy, Thomas J. Jackson, Peggy E. O'Neill, Mike Schwank, Roberto Fernandez Moran, Simone Bircher, Heather Lawrence, Arnaud Mialon, Ahmad Al Bitar, Philippe Richaume, Comparison of SMOS and SMAP soil moisture retrieval approaches using tower-based radiometer data over a vineyard field, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 154, November 2014, Pages 89-101, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2014.08.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425714002983)
Abstract: Abstract
The objective of this study was to compare several approaches to soil moisture (SM) retrieval using l-band microwave radiometry. The comparison was based on a brightness temperature (TB) data set acquired since 2010 by the L-band radiometer ELBARA-II over a vineyard field at the Valencia Anchor Station (VAS) site. ELBARA-II, provided by the European Space Agency (ESA) within the scientific program of the SMOS (Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity) mission, measures multiangular TB data at horizontal and vertical polarization for a range of incidence angles (30°–60°). Based on a three year data set (2010–2012), several SM retrieval approaches developed for spaceborne missions including AMSR-E (Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer for EOS), SMAP (Soil Moisture Active Passive) and SMOS were compared. The approaches include: the Single Channel Algorithm (SCA) for horizontal (SCA-H) and vertical (SCA-V) polarizations, the Dual Channel Algorithm (DCA), the Land Parameter Retrieval Model (LPRM) and two simplified approaches based on statistical regressions (referred to as ‘Mattar’ and ‘Saleh’). Time series of vegetation indices required for three of the algorithms (SCA-H, SCA-V and ‘Mattar’) were obtained from MODIS observations. The SM retrievals were evaluated against reference SM values estimated from a multiangular 2-Parameter inversion approach. As no in situ SM data was used, the evaluation made here is relative to the use of this specific reference data set. The results obtained with the current base line algorithms developed for SMAP (SCA-H and -V) are in very good agreement with the ‘reference’ SM data set derived from the multi-angular observations (R2 ≈ 0.90, RMSE varying between 0.035 and 0.056 m3/m3 for several retrieval configurations). This result showed that, provided the relationship between vegetation optical depth and a remotely-sensed vegetation index can be calibrated, the SCA algorithms can provide results very close to those obtained from multi-angular observations in this study area. The approaches based on statistical regressions provided similar results and the best accuracy was obtained with the ‘Saleh’ methods based on either bi-angular or bipolarization observations (R2 ≈ 0.93, RMSE ≈ 0.035 m3/m3). The LPRM and DCA algorithms were found to be slightly less successful in retrieving the ‘reference’ SM time series (R2 ≈ 0.75, RMSE ≈ 0.055 m3/m3). However, the two above approaches have the great advantage of not requiring any model calibrations previous to the SM retrievals.
Keywords: SMOS; SMAP; Soil moisture retrieval; ELBARA; Valencia Anchor Station

Yang Wang, Zhiqiang Xu, Phase retrieval for sparse signals, Applied and Computational Harmonic Analysis, Volume 37, Issue 3, November 2014, Pages 531-544, ISSN 1063-5203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acha.2014.04.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1063520314000517)
Abstract: Abstract
The aim of this paper is to build up the theoretical framework for the recovery of sparse signals from the magnitude of the measurements. We first investigate the minimal number of measurements for the success of the recovery of sparse signals from the magnitude of samples. We completely settle the minimality question for the real case and give a bound for the complex case. We then study the recovery performance of the ℓ 1 minimization for the sparse phase retrieval problem. In particular, we present the null space property which, to our knowledge, is the first sufficient and necessary condition for the success of ℓ 1 minimization for k-sparse phase retrieval.
Keywords: Signal recovery; Phase retrieval; Compressed sensing; Null space property

Pengcheng Shangguan, Imad L. Al-Qadi, Content-based image retrieval approaches to interpret ground penetrating radar data, Construction and Building Materials, Volume 69, 30 October 2014, Pages 10-17, ISSN 0950-0618, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.conbuildmat.2014.06.060.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950061814006795)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a new data processing algorithm to interpret ground penetrating radar (GPR) data for quantification of railroad ballast fouling conditions. The algorithm is based on the observation that different fouling levels generate different textures in the GPR images. The algorithm was designed following the content-based image retrieval procedure, which includes two steps: feature extraction and similarity measurement. First, texture feature was extracted using discrete wavelet transform. Second, similarity measurement was performed. Laboratory GPR data were used to evaluate the accuracy of the algorithm. The accuracy was 93%, which demonstrated the effectiveness of the algorithm.
Keywords: Ground penetrating radar; GPR; Railroad ballast; Ballast fouling; Texture retrieval

Xiaogang Wang, Chaoqing Dai, Junlang Chen, Optical image encryption via reverse engineering of a modified amplitude-phase retrieval-based attack, Optics Communications, Volume 328, 1 October 2014, Pages 67-72, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2014.04.059.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401814004027)
Abstract: Abstract
By reverse-engineering the modified amplitude-phase retrieval-based attack that has deciphered the phase-truncated double random phase encoding scheme, we proposed a new cryptosystem to encode a target image into a preselected fake image using a modified phase retrieval algorithm under the framework of phase-truncated double random phase encoding. With two private keys that are generated during the encryption, the decryption can be optically realized using a classical linear double random phase encoding method. The proposed cryptosystem has immunity against the recently proposed specific attack and the new attack based on a modified amplitude-phase retrieval algorithm. Numerical results are presented to demonstrate the validity and good performance of our proposed algorithm.
Keywords: Optical encryption; Amplitude-phase retrieval; Phase truncation; Attack

Cheng Guo, Ce Wei, Jiubin Tan, Kana Chen, Shutian Liu, Qun Wu, Zhengjun Liu, A review of iterative phase retrieval for measurement and encryption, Optics and Lasers in Engineering, Volume 89, February 2017, Pages 2-12, ISSN 0143-8166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optlaseng.2016.03.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0143816616300197)
Abstract: Abstract
Phase retrieval technique is regarded as one of the most significant tools to solve optical inverse problems. Several phase retrieval algorithms are discussed in this review. The occurrence of ill-posed conditions often makes the calculation difficult. As a synthesis, the multiple-image phase retrieval technology is invented to obtain more accurate convergence result in iterative computation. The multiple-input retrieval scheme can attach new constraints on convergence as a new limitation. As an indirect measuring method, it will make it possible to reconstruct the distribution of intensity and phase in an imaging or measurement system, where data processing is executed by computer. Moreover, the retrieval method has been applied for image encryption successfully. Finally, the development and application of the iterative phase retrieval are overviewed.
Keywords: Inverse problem; Phase measurement; Security

Jianfeng Liu, Liyan Zhao, Yanxue Xue, Jie Shi, Lin Suo, Yixiao Luo, Baisheng Chai, Chang Yang, Qin Fang, Yan Zhang, Yanping Bao, Charles L. Pickens, Lin Lu, An Unconditioned Stimulus Retrieval Extinction Procedure to Prevent the Return of Fear Memory, Biological Psychiatry, Volume 76, Issue 11, 1 December 2014, Pages 895-901, ISSN 0006-3223, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsych.2014.03.027.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S000632231400239X)
Abstract: Background
Conditioned fear memories can be updated by extinction during reconsolidation, and this effect is specific to the reactivated conditioned stimulus (CS). However, a traumatic event can be associated with several cues, and each cue can potentially trigger recollection of the event. We introduced a technique to target all diverse cues associated with an aversive event that causes fear.
Methods
In human experiments, 161 subjects underwent modified fear conditioning, in which they were exposed to an unconditioned stimulus (US) or unreinforced CS to reactivate the memory and then underwent extinction, spontaneous recovery, and reinstatement. In animal experiments, 343 rats underwent contextual fear conditioning under a similar protocol as that used in the human experiments. We also explored the molecular alterations after US reactivation in rats.
Results
Presentation of a lower intensity US before extinction disrupted the associations between the different CS and reactivated US in both humans and rats. This effect persisted for at least 6 months in humans and was selective to the reactivated US. This procedure was also effective for remote memories in both humans and rats. Compared with the CS, the US induced stronger endocytosis of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid glutamate receptors 1 and 2 and stronger activation of protein kinase A, p70S6 kinase, and cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element binding protein in the dorsal hippocampus in rats.
Conclusions
These findings demonstrate that a modified US retrieval extinction strategy may have a potential impact on therapeutic approaches to prevent the return of fear.
Key Words: Extinction; fear memory; hippocampus; reconsolidation; retrieval; unconditioned stimulus

Elisa Ciaramelli, Giorgia Faggi, Cristina Scarpazza, Flavia Mattioli, Julia Spaniol, Simona Ghetti, Morris Moscovitch, Subjective recollection independent from multifeatural context retrieval following damage to the posterior parietal cortex, Cortex, Available online 1 April 2017, ISSN 0010-9452, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cortex.2017.03.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010945217300953)
Abstract: Abstract
This study investigated whether damage to the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) impairs the capacity to retrieve multiple aspects of the encoding context in which items were studied, or whether it impairs the subjective awareness of recollection. Patients with lesions to the PPC (PPC patients) and healthy controls memorized words along with the position in which the words were presented on the screen and the ink color in which they were printed. We studied PPC patients' recognition and source memory performance, as well as subjective recollection as indexed by Remember/Know judgments. PPC patients had preserved recognition memory, and gave a similar number of R responses as did controls. Moreover, PPC patients' source memory performance, including memory for multiple contextual features, was similar to the controls'. However, whereas healthy controls were more likely to select R responses with correct multifeatural source judgments compared to K responses, PPC patients were not. These findings indicate that the PPC plays a role in the subjective experience and metamnemonic evaluation of memory contents.
Keywords: Source memory; Remember/know judgments; Feature integration; Metamemory

Roi Blanco, Gianmarco De Francisci Morales, Fabrizio Silvestri, IntoNews: Online news retrieval using closed captions, Information Processing & Management, Volume 51, Issue 1, January 2015, Pages 148-162, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2014.07.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457314000703)
Abstract: Abstract
We present IntoNews, a system to match online news articles with spoken news from a television newscasts represented by closed captions. We formalize the news matching problem as two independent tasks: closed captions segmentation and news retrieval. The system segments closed captions by using a windowing scheme: sliding or tumbling window. Next, it uses each segment to build a query by extracting representative terms. The query is used to retrieve previously indexed news articles from a search engine. To detect when a new article should be surfaced, the system compares the set of retrieved articles with the previously retrieved one. The intuition is that if the difference between these sets is large enough, it is likely that the topic of the newscast currently on air has changed and a new article should be displayed to the user. In order to evaluate IntoNews, we build a test collection using data coming from a second screen application and a major online news aggregator. The dataset is manually segmented and annotated by expert assessors, and used as our ground truth. It is freely available for download through the Webscope program.1
http://webscope.sandbox.yahoo.com.
1 Our evaluation is based on a set of novel time-relevance metrics that take into account three different aspects of the problem at hand: precision, timeliness and coverage. We compare our algorithms against the best method previously proposed in literature for this problem. Experiments show the trade-offs involved among precision, timeliness and coverage of the airing news. Our best method is four times more accurate than the baseline.
Keywords: Second screen; News retrieval; Continuous retrieval; IntoNow; IntoNews

Jafar Shamsi, Karim Mohammadi, Shahriar B. Shokouhi, Columnar-Organized Memory (COM): Brain-inspired associative memory with large capacity and robust retrieval, Biologically Inspired Cognitive Architectures, Available online 11 March 2017, ISSN 2212-683X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bica.2017.02.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212683X16301037)
Abstract: Abstract
Brain-inspired computing is an interdisciplinary field, which aims to use the capabilities of the human brain. The brain is remarkable for large memory capacity and robust memory retrieval. These characteristics are due to the specific structure of the brain. In this paper, an associative memory with large capacity and robust retrieval is introduced that is inspired by the cortical structure. The proposed model is called Columnar-Organized Memory (COM). Its architecture is based on the spiking winner-take-all (WTA): There are lateral excitatory connections between the WTAs and lateral inhibitory connections between the neurons of a WTA. Training of COM involves a two-phase algorithm: pattern storage phase and pattern association phase. The pattern storage phase is based on a spike timing dependent plasticity (STDP) rule and the pattern association phase is compatible with the classic Hebbian rule. The key characteristics of the proposed model are storing a large number of messages and retrieving them accurately. These properties are related to its structure notably; robust retrieval is a consequence of the lateral excitatory connections. Also, the overall effect of the lateral inhibitory connections is large storage capacity.
Keywords: Mini-columns; Macro-columns; Winner take all; Associative memory; Columnar organized memory

Gyula Demeter, Attila Keresztes, András Harsányi, Katalin Csigó, Mihály Racsmány, Obsessed not to forget: Lack of retrieval-induced suppression effect in obsessive-compulsive disorder, Psychiatry Research, Volume 218, Issues 1–2, 15 August 2014, Pages 153-160, ISSN 0165-1781, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psychres.2014.04.022.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016517811400300X)
Abstract: Abstract
The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of executive functions in resolving memory interference in a clinical sample of patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Retrieval of memories has been shown to involve some form of executive act that diminishes the accessibility of rival memory traces, leading to retrieval-induced forgetting (RIF). These executive control processes might suppress unwanted thoughts and irrelevant memories during competitive retrieval. We assessed RIF with the retrieval practice paradigm among 25 OCD patients and 25 healthy controls matched for age and education. Retrieval of target memories led to enhancement of target memory recall in both groups, but suppression of related memories (RIF) occurred only among controls. Our results suggest that suppression of irrelevant, interfering memories during competitive recall is impaired in OCD.
Keywords: Memory; Retrieval-induced forgetting; Executive function; Cognitive control; Inhibition; Interference; OCD

Camille Kurtz, Adrien Depeursinge, Sandy Napel, Christopher F. Beaulieu, Daniel L. Rubin, On combining image-based and ontological semantic dissimilarities for medical image retrieval applications, Medical Image Analysis, Volume 18, Issue 7, October 2014, Pages 1082-1100, ISSN 1361-8415, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.media.2014.06.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361841514001030)
Abstract: Abstract
Computer-assisted image retrieval applications can assist radiologists by identifying similar images in archives as a means to providing decision support. In the classical case, images are described using low-level features extracted from their contents, and an appropriate distance is used to find the best matches in the feature space. However, using low-level image features to fully capture the visual appearance of diseases is challenging and the semantic gap between these features and the high-level visual concepts in radiology may impair the system performance. To deal with this issue, the use of semantic terms to provide high-level descriptions of radiological image contents has recently been advocated. Nevertheless, most of the existing semantic image retrieval strategies are limited by two factors: they require manual annotation of the images using semantic terms and they ignore the intrinsic visual and semantic relationships between these annotations during the comparison of the images. Based on these considerations, we propose an image retrieval framework based on semantic features that relies on two main strategies: (1) automatic “soft” prediction of ontological terms that describe the image contents from multi-scale Riesz wavelets and (2) retrieval of similar images by evaluating the similarity between their annotations using a new term dissimilarity measure, which takes into account both image-based and ontological term relations. The combination of these strategies provides a means of accurately retrieving similar images in databases based on image annotations and can be considered as a potential solution to the semantic gap problem. We validated this approach in the context of the retrieval of liver lesions from computed tomographic (CT) images and annotated with semantic terms of the RadLex ontology. The relevance of the retrieval results was assessed using two protocols: evaluation relative to a dissimilarity reference standard defined for pairs of images on a 25-images dataset, and evaluation relative to the diagnoses of the retrieved images on a 72-images dataset. A normalized discounted cumulative gain (NDCG) score of more than 0.92 was obtained with the first protocol, while AUC scores of more than 0.77 were obtained with the second protocol. This automatical approach could provide real-time decision support to radiologists by showing them similar images with associated diagnoses and, where available, responses to therapies.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Riesz wavelets; Image annotation; Semantic dissimilarities; Computed tomographic (CT) images

Ekta Walia, Aman Pal, Fusion framework for effective color image retrieval, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 25, Issue 6, August 2014, Pages 1335-1348, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2014.05.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320314000844)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a novel framework for color image retrieval through combination of all the low level features, which gives higher retrieval accuracy. The Color Difference Histogram (CDH) and Angular Radial Transform (ART) features are exploited to capture color, texture and shape information of an image. The CDH algorithm is modified in order to make the proposed system more effective. The proposed fusion framework combines the ranking results of the aforementioned descriptors through various post-classification methods i.e. Borda Count method, Min–max and Z-score normalization. The maximum retrieval accuracy attained in terms of average precision using Min–max normalization on Wang’s database is 78.3% when ART is applied on non-overlapping regions of the images. The proposed fusion framework is recommended because it improves the average retrieval accuracy by approximately 16% and 14% over CDH and ART respectively. Extensive experiments are carried out on different databases to establish the efficacy of the proposed scheme.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval; Lab color space; Color Difference Histogram; Angular Radial Transform; Borda Count; Min–max normalization; Z-score normalization; Fusion

Leonardo H. Iwaya, Roberto S.U. Rosso Jr., Marcelo da S. Hounsell, A Design for Assembly application with dynamic information retrieval from case database*, IFAC Proceedings Volumes, Volume 46, Issue 7, May 2013, Pages 186-191, ISSN 1474-6670, https://doi.org/10.3182/20130522-3-BR-4036.00054.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S147466701535672X)
Abstract: Design for Assembly (DFA) is a Concurrent Engineering constituent that gained a lot of attention due to fast and measurable benefits. The main principle of DFA is to foresee assembly problems at the design stage based on the experience regarding functionality, materials and machine availability. The work presented in this paper, named RFA - Redesign for Assembly, adds a way to explicitly register and retrieve experiences as part of the design process. It starts from an initial design, then RFA leads the designer through a detailed assessment towards an improved design according to previous experiences. Experience representation was done using a Group Technology classification concept that helps assign a primary-key for a Case Based Teaching underlying system. A supporting system has been implemented in order to try out RFA. DFA scholars have used RFA and proved that experience retrieval is easily and intuitively incorporated in the design process. The paper presents a study about the DFA methodology, reviews existing solutions (methods and software) from the literature and details the RFA architecture, implementation and tests. RFA shows potential for a new design culture based on knowledge sharing, but also, as a repository for a very valuable asset, i.e. problem-oriented assembly-related design experience.
Keywords: Design for Assembly; Case-Based Teaching; Group Technology; Assembly Features

Chi-Chun Chou, C. Janie Chang, Jacob Peng, Integrating XBRL data with textual information in Chinese: A semantic web approach, International Journal of Accounting Information Systems, Volume 21, June 2016, Pages 32-46, ISSN 1467-0895, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2016.04.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S146708951630032X)
Abstract: Abstract
Due to formatting differences, the difficulties of processing the textual disclosures and integrating them with quantitative financial data are well documented in the literature. Using a design science methodology, this paper describes a method that automatically extracts relevant textual data from annual reports published in Chinese. These extracted words are then mapped to a knowledge framework we proposed. This paper shows that it is technologically feasible to reorganize the MD&amp;A contents into any given knowledge structure to improve the search capability, readability, and cohesiveness of the MD&amp;A contents. Finally, we demonstrate a prototype system that uses semantic web technology to achieve information integration that presents XBRL formatted accounting data with relevant textual disclosures together to assist user decision making.
Keywords: Text analytics; Business information retrieval; Integration of financial and non-financial information; XBRL

M.S. Sudhakar, K. Bhoopathy Bagan, An effective biomedical image retrieval framework in a fuzzy feature space employing Phase Congruency and GeoSOM, Applied Soft Computing, Volume 22, September 2014, Pages 492-503, ISSN 1568-4946, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2014.04.029.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S156849461400194X)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a detailed study about a biomedical image retrieval framework by extracting Phase Congruency (PC) features from L*a*b* triplets of images (query, target) and representing them in fuzzy feature space. These features correspond to an edge-corner map of the given image. The resulting map is then processed by Scale Invariant Feature Transform (SIFT) to derive keypoints, that are invariant to affine transformations. The ensuing features were vector quantized to build a codebook of keypoints. The codebook was produced using a Spherical Self-Organizing Map (SOM) built with a geodesic data structure termed as GeoSOM. Then keypoints of the query image are mapped with the codebook and their occurrences are counted to formulate a histogram termed as Phase Congruency-based Bag of Keypoints (PC-BoK). This histogram is generated offline for target images and a similarity measure was performed with the query image to yield the nearest match based on a global fuzzy membership function. Exhaustive experiments of the proposed framework named as BIRS (Biomedical Image Retrieval System) were performed on a diverse medical image collection (NBIA, MESSIDOR, DRIVE). Finally, performance of BIRS demonstrates the advantage of the proposed image representation approach in terms of Precision (P)–Recall (R) parameters. Furthermore relative comparison of the proposed scheme with existing feature descriptors depicts improved P–R values. The proposed feature extraction and representation scheme was also robust against quantization errors.
Keywords: L*a*b* color space; Phase Congruency; SIFT transform; GeoSOM; Fuzzy logic; Image retrieval

V. Giannouli, Depressive symptomatology and learning: Does intermediate testing or restudying the information determine long-term memory retrieval of novel symbols?, European Psychiatry, Volume 33, Supplement, March 2016, Page S412, ISSN 0924-9338, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eurpsy.2016.01.1486.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924933816014905)
Abstract: Introduction
There is a hypothesis in cognitive psychology that long-term memory retrieval is improved by intermediate testing than by restudying the information. The effect of testing has been investigated with the use of a variety of stimuli. However, almost all testing effect studies to date have used purely verbal materials such as word pairs, facts and prose passages.
Objective
Here byzantine music symbol–word pairs were used as to-be-learned materials to demonstrate the generalisability of the testing effect to symbol learning in participants with and without depressive symptoms.
Method
Fifty healthy (24 women, M age = 26.20, SD = 5.64) and forty volunteers with high depressive symptomatology (20 women, M age = 27.00, SD = 1.04) were examined. The participants did not have a music education. The examination material was completely new for them: 16 byzantine music notation stimuli, paired with a verbal label (the ancient Greek name of the symbol). Half of the participants underwent intermediate testing and the others restudied the information in a balanced design.
Results
Results indicated that there were no statistically significant differences in final memory test performance after a retention interval of 5 minutes for both groups of participants with low and high level depressive symptomatology (P &gt; 0.005). After a retention interval of a week, tested pairs were retained better than repeatedly studied pairs for high and low depressive symptomatology groups (P &lt; 0.005).
Conclusions
This research suggests that the effect of testing time on later memory retrieval can also be obtained in byzantine symbol learning.

Maksym Petrenko, Václav Rajlich, Concept location using program dependencies and information retrieval (DepIR), Information and Software Technology, Volume 55, Issue 4, April 2013, Pages 651-659, ISSN 0950-5849, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2012.09.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584912002078)
Abstract: Context
The functionality of a software system is most often expressed in terms of concepts from its problem or solution domains. The process of finding where these concepts are implemented in the source code is known as concept location and it is a prerequisite of software change.
Objective
We investigate a static approach to concept location named DepIR that combines program dependency search (DepS) with information retrieval-based search (IR). In this approach, programmers explore the static program dependencies of the source code components retrieved by the IR search engine.
Method
The paper presents an empirical study that compares DepIR with its constituent techniques. The evaluation is based on an empirical method of reenactment that emulates the steps of concept location for 50 past changes mined from software repositories of five software systems.
Results
The results of the study indicate that DepIR significantly outperforms both DepS and IR.
Conclusion
DepIR allows developers to perform concept location efficiently. It allows finding concepts even with queries that do not rank the relevant software components highly. Since formulating a good query is not always easy, this tolerance of lower-quality queries significantly broadens the usability of DepIR compared to the traditional IR.
Keywords: IR; Dependency search; Concept location

Mohsen Zand, Shyamala Doraisamy, Alfian Abdul Halin, Mas Rina Mustaffa, Texture classification and discrimination for region-based image retrieval, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 26, January 2015, Pages 305-316, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2014.10.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320314001643)
Abstract: Abstract
In RBIR, texture features are crucial in determining the class a region belongs to since they can overcome the limitations of color and shape features. Two robust approaches to model texture features are Gabor and curvelet features. Although both features are close to human visual perception, sufficient information needs to be extracted from their sub-bands for effective texture classification. Moreover, shape irregularity can be a problem since Gabor and curvelet transforms can only be applied on the regular shapes. In this paper, we propose an approach that uses both the Gabor wavelet and the curvelet transforms on the transferred regular shapes of the image regions. We also apply a fitting method to encode the sub-bands’ information in the polynomial coefficients to create a texture feature vector with the maximum power of discrimination. Experiments on texture classification task with ImageCLEF and Outex databases demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Keywords: Region-based image retrieval; Texture feature extraction; Texture classification; Gabor wavelet; Curvelet filters; Polynomials; ImageCLEF; Outex

B. Seifert, S. Wallentowitz, U. Volkmann, A. Hause, K. Sperlich, H. Stolz, Spectrographic phase-retrieval algorithm for femtosecond and attosecond pulses with frequency gaps, Optics Communications, Volume 329, 15 October 2014, Pages 69-75, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2014.05.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401814004362)
Abstract: Abstract
We present a phase-reconstruction algorithm for a self-referenced spectrographic pulse characterization technique called “very advanced method for phase and intensity retrieval of e-fields” (VAMPIRE). This technique permits a spectral phase reconstruction of pulses with separated frequency components. The algorithm uses the particular characteristics of VAMPIRE spectrograms. It is a locally structured algorithm which is fast, robust, and it allows us to master stagnation problems. The algorithm is tested by use of both simulated and measured data.
Keywords: Ultrafast processes; Phase retrieval; Numerical optimization

Hong-Ying Yang, Yong-Wei Li, Wei-Yi Li, Xiang-Yang Wang, Fang-Yu Yang, Content-based image retrieval using local visual attention feature, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 25, Issue 6, August 2014, Pages 1308-1323, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2014.05.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320314000820)
Abstract: Abstract
Content-based image retrieval (CBIR) has been an active research topic in the last decade. As one of the promising approaches, salient point based image retrieval has attracted many researchers. However, the related work is usually very time consuming, and some salient points always may not represent the most interesting subset of points for image indexing. Based on fast and performant salient point detector, and the salient point expansion, a novel content-based image retrieval using local visual attention feature is proposed in this paper. Firstly, the salient image points are extracted by using the fast and performant SURF (Speeded-Up Robust Features) detector. Then, the visually significant image points around salient points can be obtained according to the salient point expansion. Finally, the local visual attention feature of visually significant image points, including the weighted color histogram and spatial distribution entropy, are extracted, and the similarity between color images is computed by using the local visual attention feature. Experimental results, including comparisons with the state-of-the-art retrieval systems, demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposal.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Salient point; SURF; Visually significant image point; Weighted color histogram; Spatial distribution entropy; Color complexity measure; Similarity

Gail D. Tillman, Clifford S. Calley, Virginia I. Buhl, Hsueh-Sheng Chiang, Robert W. Haley, John Hart Jr, Michael A. Kraut, Electrophysiological correlates of semantic memory retrieval in Gulf War Syndrome 2 patients, Journal of the Neurological Sciences, Volume 373, 15 February 2017, Pages 66-72, ISSN 0022-510X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jns.2016.12.023.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022510X16308164)
Abstract: Abstract
Gulf War veterans meeting criteria for Haley Syndrome 2 of Gulf War illness endorse a particular constellation of symptoms that include difficulty with processing information, word-finding, and confusion. To explore the neural basis of their word-finding difficulty, we assessed event-related potentials (ERPs) associated with semantic memory retrieval in 22 veterans classified as Syndrome 2 and 28 veterans who served as controls. We recorded EEGs while subjects judged whether pairs of words that represented object features combined to elicit a retrieval of an object memory or no retrieval. Syndrome 2 subjects' responses were significantly slower, and those participants were less accurate than controls on the retrieval trials, but they performed similarly on the nonretrieval trials. Analysis of the ERPs revealed a difference between retrievals and nonretrievals that has previously been detected around 750 ms at the left temporal region was present in both the Syndrome 2 patients and controls. However, the Syndrome 2 patients also showed an ERP difference between retrievals and nonretrievals at the midline parietal region that had a scalp voltage polarity opposite from that recorded at the left temporal area. We hypothesize that the similarities between task performance and ERP patterns in Syndrome 2 veterans and in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment reflect disordered thalamic cholinergic neural activity, possibly in the dorsomedial nucleus.
Keywords: Word-finding; Gulf War illness; Semantic memory; EEG; ERP; Cholinergic

Tibor Kocsis, Stéphane Negny, Pascal Floquet, Xuân Meyer, Endre Rév, Case-Based Reasoning system for mathematical modelling options and resolution methods for production scheduling problems: Case representation, acquisition and retrieval, Computers & Industrial Engineering, Volume 77, November 2014, Pages 46-64, ISSN 0360-8352, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2014.09.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360835214002794)
Abstract: Abstract
Thanks to a wide and dynamic research community on short term production scheduling, a large number of modelling options and solving methods have been developed in the recent years both in chemical production and manufacturing domains. This trend is expected to grow in the future as the number of publications is constantly increasing because of industrial interest in the current economic context. The frame of this work is the development of a decision-support system to work out an assignment strategy between scheduling problems, mathematical modelling options and appropriate solving methods. The system must answer the question about which model and which solution method should be applied to solve a new scheduling problem in the most convenient way. The decision-support system is to be built on the foundations of Case Based Reasoning (CBR). CBR is based on a data base which encompasses previously successful experiences. The three major contributions of this paper are: (i) the proposition of an extended and a more exhaustive classification and notation scheme in order to obtain an efficient scheduling case representation (based on previous ones), (ii) a method for bibliographic analysis used to perform a deep study to fill the case base on the one hand, and to examine the topics the more or the less examined in the scheduling domain and their evolution over time on the other hand, and (iii) the proposition of criteria to extract relevant past experiences during the retrieval step of the CBR. The capabilities of our decision support system are illustrated through a case study with typical constraints related to process engineering production in beer industry.
Keywords: Decision-support system; Process scheduling; Case Based Reasoning; Classification and notation system; Case retrieval

Hsueh-Sheng Chiang, Raksha A. Mudar, Jeffrey S. Spence, Athula Pudhiyidath, Justin Eroh, Bambi DeLaRosa, Michael A. Kraut, John Hart Jr., Age-related changes in feature-based object memory retrieval as measured by event-related potentials, Biological Psychology, Volume 100, July 2014, Pages 106-114, ISSN 0301-0511, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsycho.2014.05.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301051114001094)
Abstract: Abstract
To investigate neural mechanisms that support semantic functions in aging, we recorded scalp EEG during an object retrieval task in 22 younger and 22 older adults. The task required determining if a particular object could be retrieved when two visual words representing object features were presented. Both age groups had comparable accuracy although response times were longer in older adults. In both groups a left fronto-temporal negative potential occurred at around 750 ms during object retrieval, consistent with previous findings (Brier, Maguire, Tillman, Hart, &amp; Kraut, 2008). In only older adults, a later positive frontal potential was found peaking between 800 and 1000 ms during no retrieval. These findings suggest younger and older adults employ comparable neural mechanisms when features clearly facilitate retrieval of an object memory, but when features yield no retrieval, older adults use additional neural resources to engage in a more effortful and exhaustive search prior to making a decision.
Keywords: Semantic; Object memory; Memory retrieval; Feature; ERP; Aging

Philippe Jaming, Uniqueness results in an extension of Pauli's phase retrieval problem, Applied and Computational Harmonic Analysis, Volume 37, Issue 3, November 2014, Pages 413-441, ISSN 1063-5203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acha.2014.01.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1063520314000189)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we investigate an extension of Pauli's phase retrieval problem. The original problem asks whether a function u is uniquely determined by its modulus | u | and the modulus of its Fourier transform | F u | up to a constant phase factor. Here we extend this problem by considering the uniqueness of the phase retrieval problem for the fractional Fourier transform (FrFT) of variable order. This problem occurs naturally in optics and quantum physics.

More precisely, we show that if u and v are such that fractional Fourier transforms of order α have same modulus | F α u | = | F α v | for some set τ of α's, then v is equal to u up to a constant phase factor. The set τ depends on some extra assumptions either on u or on both u and v. Cases considered here are u, v of compact support, pulse trains, Hermite functions or linear combinations of translates and dilates of Gaussians. In this last case, the set τ may even be reduced to a single point (i.e. one fractional Fourier transform may suffice for uniqueness in the problem).
Keywords: Phase retrieval; Pauli problem; Fractional Fourier transform; Entire function of finite order

J. Vander Auwera, A. Fayt, M. Tudorie, M. Rotger, V. Boudon, B. Franco, E. Mahieu, Self-broadening coefficients and improved line intensities for the ν7 band of ethylene near , and impact on ethylene retrievals from Jungfraujoch solar spectra, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 148, November 2014, Pages 177-185, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2014.07.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407314002878)
Abstract: Abstract
Relying on high-resolution Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra, the present work involved extensive measurements of individual line intensities and self-broadening coefficients for the ν7 band of 12C2H4. The measured self-broadening coefficients exhibit a dependence on both J and Ka. Compared to the corresponding information available in the latest edition of the HITRAN spectroscopic database, the measured line intensities were found to be higher by about 10% for high J lines in the P branch and lower by about 5% for high J lines of the R branch, varying between these two limits roughly linearly with the line positions. The impact of the presently measured line intensities on retrievals of atmospheric ethylene in the 949.0–952.0 cm−1 microwindow was evaluated using a subset of ground-based high-resolution FTIR solar spectra recorded at the Jungfraujoch station. The use of HITRAN 2012 with line intensities modified to match the present measurements led to a systematic reduction of the measured total columns of ethylene by − 4.1 ± 0.1 % .
Keywords: Ethylene; High-resolution infrared absorption spectroscopy; Line intensities; Self-broadening coefficients; Atmospheric retrievals

R. Bleisch, N. Kämpfer, Adding constraints by in situ informations to optimal estimation retrievals of tropospheric water vapour profiles from microwave radiometry, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 113, Issue 16, November 2012, Pages 1993-2003, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2012.07.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407312003275)
Abstract: The optimal estimation method is a widely used method to invert species profiles from spectra observed by a microwave radiometer. The classical retrieval is constrained by the a priori profile and the corresponding covariance matrix, which is a “soft” constraining of the retrieved profile to a certain range of values. However, in some cases a “hard” constraining of the profile to a fixed value known from other measurements would be desirable.

This work presents an approach to introduce such “hard” retrieval constraints (fixed-points) into optimal estimation retrievals by adapting the a priori covariance matrix.

Its application is tested on the example of the retrieval of tropospheric water vapour volume mixing ratio (vmr) profiles from spectra of the MIAWARA radiometer operated by the Institute of Applied Physics, University of Bern. Thereby the cloud base height is one candidate to deliver a fixed-point, as the corresponding vmr value can be determined by assuming a relative humidity of 100%.

As a test, the approach is applied to spectra simulated from balloon soundings. The cloud base height is derived from these same balloon soundings. The results show a significant improvement of the retrieval performance for all cases with liquid clouds except for fog.

Afterwards the approach is also applied to real MIAWARA data. Thereby the measurements of a ceilometer and an infrared sensor (both installed close to the instrument) are used to derive a fixed-point.

In principle, the application on real data also works. However the retrieval performance is limited, because we are currently not able to determine the vmr value at fixed-point altitude with suitable precision. The cloud base temperature, needed for the calculation of the vmr value at fixed-point altitude, is determined indirectly from measurements of an infrared sensor attached to the instruments or by for example interpolating data from ECMWF-reanalysis. In both cases the precision is not very high, with there being a significant uncertainty in the resulting vmr-value at cloud base. However, our new radiometer TEMPERA has the capability to deliver more reliable estimates of the cloud base temperature in near future.
Keywords: Remote sensing; Radiative transfer; Inversion methodology; Optimal estimation; Water vapour

Chufan Jiang, Beiwen Li, Song Zhang, Pixel-by-pixel absolute phase retrieval using three phase-shifted fringe patterns without markers, Optics and Lasers in Engineering, Volume 91, April 2017, Pages 232-241, ISSN 0143-8166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optlaseng.2016.12.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0143816616305280)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a method that can recover absolute phase pixel by pixel without embedding markers on three phase-shifted fringe patterns, acquiring additional images, or introducing additional hardware component(s). The proposed three-dimensional (3D) absolute shape measurement technique includes the following major steps: (1) segment the measured object into different regions using rough priori knowledge of surface geometry; (2) artificially create phase maps at different z planes using geometric constraints of structured light system; (3) unwrap the phase pixel by pixel for each region by properly referring to the artificially created phase map; and (4) merge unwrapped phases from all regions into a complete absolute phase map for 3D reconstruction. We demonstrate that conventional three-step phase-shifted fringe patterns can be used to create absolute phase map pixel by pixel even for large depth range objects. We have successfully implemented our proposed computational framework to achieve absolute 3D shape measurement at 40 Hz.
Keywords: Absolute phase; Real-time; Structured light; Geometric constraints; Depth range extension

Ren-Jie Wang, Ya-Ting Yang, Pao-Chi Chang, Content-based image retrieval using H.264 intra coding features, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 25, Issue 5, July 2014, Pages 963-969, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2014.02.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320314000546)
Abstract: Abstract
Efficient multimedia retrieval has become a vital issue because more audio and video data are now available. This paper focuses on content-based image retrieval (CBIR) in the compression domain (CPD). The retrieval features are extracted based on I-frame coding information in H.264. This paper proposes using a local mode histogram as the texture feature to match images and applying the residual coefficients to filter non-confident modes. The geometrical correspondence between two images is also considered. The experimental results show that the proposed method can substantially reduce computational and memory resource consumption, and provides similar performance compared with methods that extract features from decompressed images.
Keywords: Content-based image/video retrieval; H.264; Intra prediction; Video coding; Compression domain; Geometrical verification; Image search; Texture features

Y. Wang, C. Quan, C.J. Tay, Nonlinear multiple-image encryption based on mixture retrieval algorithm in Fresnel domain, Optics Communications, Volume 330, 1 November 2014, Pages 91-98, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2014.05.032.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401814004878)
Abstract: Abstract
We propose a novel nonlinear multiple-image encryption based on mixture retrieval algorithm and phase mask multiplexing in Fresnel domain. The encryption process is realized by applying the Yang–Gu algorithm cascaded with a modified Gerchberg–Saxton algorithm (MGSA), which generate a private key and an intermediate phase to ensure high security. In the proposed method, all images are encoded separately into a phase only function (POF). Obtained POFs are integrated into a final POF based on phase mask multiplexing. As a result, cross-talk noise is removed resulting in a large improvement of the encryption capacity. A spatial light modulator (SLM) based optical setup has been suggested for decryption. Numerical simulations are presented to demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed system. Results also indicate the high robustness of the system against occlusion and noise attacks.
Keywords: Multiple-image encryption; Mixture retrieval algorithm; Fresnel transform (FrT)

Jason D. Hans, Posthumous gamete retrieval and reproduction: Would the deceased spouse consent?, Social Science & Medicine, Volume 119, October 2014, Pages 10-17, ISSN 0277-9536, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.socscimed.2014.08.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0277953614005279)
Abstract: Abstract
Policy and medical decision-making has been hindered by the absence of reliable data on attitudes toward having one's own gametes retrieved posthumously and used to produce a child in the event of an untimely death. The purpose of this study is to directly and empirically examine whether the presumption against consent is justified in the case of posthumous gamete retrieval following sudden death. Respondents (N = 2064) were contacted using a random-digit dialing method that gave every household telephone in the continental United States an equal probability of being contacted, and were asked: “Suppose you were to experience an early death and your spouse wanted to have a biological child with you. Would you or would you not want your spouse to be able to use your sperm/eggs following your death to have a child with you?” Among reproductive age respondents (18–44 years), 70% of males and 58% of females wanted their spouse to be able to use their gametes and, for the most part, attitudes were fairly consistent across demographic characteristics. Religiosity was the best predictor of attitudes—those who described themselves as more religious were less likely to desire posthumous gamete retrieval—but the majority (58%) of respondents who were very religious approved of retrieval. Overall, these data indicate that abandoning the prevailing presumption against consent in favor of a presumption of consent on the part of the deceased will result in the deceased's wishes being honored two and three times more often for females and males, respectively. Three main arguments against a presumption of consent in this context are discussed: autonomy of the deceased, conflict of interest, and the decision-making capacity of a grieving spouse.
Keywords: Oocyte retrieval; Posthumous reproduction; Presumed consent; Sperm preservation; Sudden death

Rahul Nigam, Bimal K. Bhattacharya, Swapnil Vyas, Markand P. Oza, Retrieval of wheat leaf area index from AWiFS multispectral data using canopy radiative transfer simulation, International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation, Volume 32, October 2014, Pages 173-185, ISSN 0303-2434, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jag.2014.04.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0303243414000877)
Abstract: Abstract
Accurate representation of leaf area index (LAI) from high resolution satellite observations is obligatory for various modelling exercises and predicting the precise farm productivity. Present study compared the two retrieval approach based on canopy radiative transfer (CRT) method and empirical method using four vegetation indices (VI) (e.g. NDVI, NDWI, RVI and GNDVI) to estimate the wheat LAI. Reflectance observations available at very high (56 m) spatial resolution from Advanced Wide-Field Sensor (AWiFS) sensor onboard Indian Remote Sensing (IRS) P6, Resourcesat-1 satellite was used in this study. This study was performed over two different wheat growing regions, situated in different agro-climatic settings/environments: Trans-Gangetic Plain Region (TGPR) and Central Plateau and Hill Region (CPHR). Forward simulation of canopy reflectances in four AWiFS bands viz. green (0.52–0.59 μm), red (0.62–0.68 μm), NIR (0.77–0.86 μm) and SWIR (1.55–1.70 μm) were carried out to generate the look up table (LUT) using CRT model PROSAIL from all combinations of canopy intrinsic variables. An inversion technique based on minimization of cost function was used to retrieve LAI from LUT and observed AWiFS surface reflectances. Two consecutive wheat growing seasons (November 2005–March 2006 and November 2006–March 2007) datasets were used in this study. The empirical models were developed from first season data and second growing season data used for validation. Among all the models, LAI-NDVI empirical model showed the least RMSE (root mean square error) of 0.54 and 0.51 in both agro-climatic regions respectively. The comparison of PROSAIL retrieved LAI with in situ measurements of 2006–2007 over the two agro-climatic regions produced substantially less RMSE of 0.34 and 0.41 having more R2 of 0.91 and 0.95 for TGPR and CPHR respectively in comparison to empirical models. Moreover, CRT retrieved LAI had less value of errors in all the LAI classes contrary to empirical estimates. The PROSAIL based retrieval has potential for operational implementation to determine the regional crop LAI and can be extendible to other regions after rigorous validation exercise.
Keywords: LAI retrieval; Canopy radiative transfer; Satellite; Crop

Esther de Ves, Daniel Acevedo, Ana Ruedin, Xaro Benavent, A statistical model for magnitudes and angles of wavelet frame coefficients and its application to texture retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Volume 47, Issue 9, September 2014, Pages 2925-2939, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2014.03.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320314000740)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a texture descriptor based on wavelet frame transforms. At each position in the image, and for each resolution level, we consider both vertical and horizontal wavelet detail coefficients as the components of a bivariate random vector. The magnitudes and angles of these vectors are computed. At each level the empirical histogram of magnitudes is modeled by a Generalized Gamma distribution, and the empirical histogram of angles is modeled by a different version of the von Mises distribution that accounts for histograms with 2 modes. Each texture is characterized by few parameters. A new distance is presented (based on the Kullback–Leibler divergence) that allows giving relative importance to each model and to each resolution level. This distance is later conveniently adapted to provide for rotation invariance, by establishing equivalence classes over distributions of angles. Through a broad set of experiments on three different image databases, we demonstrate that our new descriptor and distance measure can be successfully applied in the context of texture retrieval. We compare our system to several relevant methods in this field in terms of retrieval performance and number of parameters used by each method. We also include some classification tests. In all the tests, we obtain superior retrieval rates for a set of fewer parameters involved.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Rotation invariant; Statistical models; Texture descriptor; Wavelet frames

Andreia V. Faria, Kenichi Oishi, Shoko Yoshida, Argye Hillis, Michael I. Miller, Susumu Mori, Content-based image retrieval for brain MRI: An image-searching engine and population-based analysis to utilize past clinical data for future diagnosis, NeuroImage: Clinical, Volume 7, 2015, Pages 367-376, ISSN 2213-1582, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nicl.2015.01.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213158215000091)
Abstract: Abstract
Radiological diagnosis is based on subjective judgment by radiologists. The reasoning behind this process is difficult to document and share, which is a major obstacle in adopting evidence-based medicine in radiology. We report our attempt to use a comprehensive brain parcellation tool to systematically capture image features and use them to record, search, and evaluate anatomical phenotypes. Anatomical images (T1-weighted MRI) were converted to a standardized index by using a high-dimensional image transformation method followed by atlas-based parcellation of the entire brain. We investigated how the indexed anatomical data captured the anatomical features of healthy controls and a population with Primary Progressive Aphasia (PPA). PPA was chosen because patients have apparent atrophy at different degrees and locations, thus the automated quantitative results can be compared with trained clinicians' qualitative evaluations. We explored and tested the power of individual classifications and of performing a search for images with similar anatomical features in a database using partial least squares-discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) and principal component analysis (PCA). The agreement between the automated z-score and the averaged visual scores for atrophy (r = 0.8) was virtually the same as the inter-evaluator agreement. The PCA plot distribution correlated with the anatomical phenotypes and the PLS-DA resulted in a model with an accuracy of 88% for distinguishing PPA variants. The quantitative indices captured the main anatomical features. The indexing of image data has a potential to be an effective, comprehensive, and easily translatable tool for clinical practice, providing new opportunities to mine clinical databases for medical decision support.
Keywords: Automated parcellation; Brain; MRI; Content-based image retrieval; Atlas-based analysis

Omar N. Metwally, Sidhartha R. Sinha, Sa2026 A Novel Voice-Activated Web Application for Rapid Knowledge Generation and Information Retrieval Through Semantic Parsing of Verbal Communication, Gastroenterology, Volume 150, Issue 4, Supplement 1, April 2016, Page S433, ISSN 0016-5085, https://doi.org/10.1016/S0016-5085(16)31503-7.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0016508516315037)

Hung-yi Lee, Po-wei Chou, Lin-shan Lee, Improved open-vocabulary spoken content retrieval with word and subword lattices using acoustic feature similarity, Computer Speech & Language, Volume 28, Issue 5, September 2014, Pages 1045-1065, ISSN 0885-2308, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csl.2013.12.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0885230813001162)
Abstract: Abstract
Spoken content retrieval will be very important for retrieving and browsing multimedia content over the Internet, and spoken term detection (STD) is one of the key technologies for spoken content retrieval. In this paper, we show acoustic feature similarity between spoken segments used with pseudo-relevance feedback and graph-based re-ranking can improve the performance of STD. This is based on the concept that spoken segments similar in acoustic feature vector sequences to those with higher/lower relevance scores should have higher/lower scores, while graph-based re-ranking further uses a graph to consider the similarity structure among all the segments retrieved in the first pass. These approaches are formulated on both word and subword lattices, and a complete framework of using them in open vocabulary retrieval of spoken content is presented. Significant improvements for these approaches with both in-vocabulary and out-of-vocabulary queries were observed in preliminary experiments.
Keywords: Spoken content retrieval; Spoken term detection; Pseudo-relevance feedback; Random walk

Candace M. Raio, Edith Brignoni-Perez, Rachel Goldman, Elizabeth A. Phelps, Acute stress impairs the retrieval of extinction memory in humans, Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, Volume 112, July 2014, Pages 212-221, ISSN 1074-7427, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nlm.2014.01.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1074742714000239)
Abstract: Abstract
Extinction training is a form of inhibitory learning that allows an organism to associate a previously aversive cue with a new, safe outcome. Extinction does not erase a fear association, but instead creates a competing association that may or may not be retrieved when a cue is subsequently encountered. Characterizing the conditions under which extinction learning is expressed is important to enhancing the treatment of anxiety disorders that rely on extinction-based exposure therapy as a primary treatment technique. The ventromedial prefrontal cortex, which plays a critical role in the expression of extinction memory, has been shown to be functionally impaired after stress exposure. Further, recent work in rodents has demonstrated that exposure to stress leads to deficits in extinction retrieval, although this has yet to be tested in humans. To explore how stress might influence extinction retrieval in humans, participants underwent a differential aversive learning paradigm, in which one image was probabilistically paired with an aversive shock while the other image denoted safety. Extinction training directly followed, at which point reinforcement was omitted. A day later, participants returned to the lab and either completed an acute stress manipulation (i.e., cold pressor), or a control task, before undergoing an extinction retrieval test. Skin conductance responses and salivary cortisol concentrations were measured throughout each session as indices of fear arousal and neuroendocrine stress response, respectively. The efficacy of our stress induction was established by observing significant increases in cortisol for the stress condition only. We examined extinction retrieval by comparing conditioned responses during the last trial of extinction (day 1) with that of the first trial of re-extinction (day 2). Groups did not differ on initial fear acquisition or extinction, however, a day later participants in the stress group (n = 27) demonstrated significantly lower extinction retrieval (i.e., greater fear recovery) than those in the control group (n = 25). Our results suggest that acute stress impairs the retrieval of extinction learning and offers insight into why treatment strategies used in the clinic may be challenging to recruit in daily life where stress is pervasive.
Keywords: Extinction retrieval; Fear conditioning; Stress; Cortisol

G.G. Lakshmi Priya, S. Domnic, Shot based keyframe extraction for ecological video indexing and retrieval, Ecological Informatics, Volume 23, September 2014, Pages 107-117, ISSN 1574-9541, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecoinf.2013.09.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574954113000873)
Abstract: Abstract
Among possible research area in multimedia, keyframe extraction is an important topic that provides video summarization, faster browsing and accessing of wide video collections. In this paper, we propose a new automatic shot based keyframe extraction for video indexing and retrieval applications. Initially, the frames are sequentially clustered into shots by using feature extraction, continuity value construction steps of shot boundary detection process and the shot frame clustering technique. The cluster having a larger dispersion rate is selected for inter cluster similarity analysis (ICSA) and the sub-shot based keyframes are extracted using ICSA. The proposed shot boundary detection algorithm and video keyframe extraction technique are implemented and evaluated on publicly available ecological video datasets. Compared with existing related algorithms, our method yields better F1-score of 94.2% for shot boundary detection and better results for keyframe extraction. The keyframes extracted by the proposed method are used for video indexing and retrieval.
Keywords: Video shot boundary detection; Keyframe extraction; ICSA; Ecological video summarization; Indexing and retrieval; Evaluation criteria

Dipak Limbachia, Preeti Gandhi, Laparoscopic retrieval of a foreign body (broken surgical knife) from retroperitoneal space: An interesting case, Gynecology and Minimally Invasive Therapy, Available online 7 March 2017, ISSN 2213-3070, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gmit.2016.10.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213307017300448)
Abstract: Abstract
We present a rare and interesting case, of a retrieval of a broken surgical knife blade, from the retroperitoneal space, through laparoscopic approach by a gynecology endoscopist. A 40-year-old man underwent open lumbar discectomy surgery, when the surgical knife blade inadvertently broke, and was retained in the disc space. The broken blade could not be removed during the initial surgery. A second attempt was made to retrieve it; however, it migrated further anteriorly into the retroperitoneal space. Subsequently, a gynecology endoscopist was called in, who successfully retrieved the broken blade from the retroperitoneal space through laparoscopic approach. A four-port laparoscopic transperitoneal approach was performed. The broken fragment of the knife was found just medial to the left common iliac artery in the retroperitoneal space, which was removed. Operation time was 40 minutes and the postoperative course was uneventful.
Keywords: broken knife; foreign body; laparoscopy; retroperitoneal

Jorge L. Flores, Ricardo Legarda-Saenz, G. Garcia-Torales, Color deflectometry for phase retrieval using phase-shifting methods, Optics Communications, Volume 334, 1 January 2015, Pages 298-302, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2014.08.030.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401814007779)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we propose a technique based on a color fringe pattern used on deflectometry experiment. The advantages of using color fringe patterns together with phase shifting techniques on deflectometry experiment are presented. An experimental wavefront reconstruction of a progressive lens shows the accuracy and simplicity of these techniques used to process the deflection measurements.
Keywords: Fringe analysis; Image reconstruction techniques; Phase retrieval

Moritz Köster, Uwe Friese, Benjamin Schöne, Nelson Trujillo-Barreto, Thomas Gruber, Theta–gamma coupling during episodic retrieval in the human EEG, Brain Research, Volume 1577, 19 August 2014, Pages 57-68, ISSN 0006-8993, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2014.06.028.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899314008440)
Abstract: Abstract
Recent findings indicate that phase-amplitude coupling between neuronal oscillations in the theta- (3–6 Hz) and the gamma-band (30–100 Hz) plays a functional role in memory processes. Here, using electroencephalography, we provide further evidence for coupling between prefrontal theta and parietal gamma during successful memory retrieval in the human brain. In a pictorial recognition task, the coupling between prefrontal theta phase and parietal gamma amplitude was quantified using the modulation index, 100–1500 ms after stimulus onset. Results show an increased coupling for remembered, as opposed to forgotten and new stimuli (i.e. a “recognition effect” and an “old/new effect”). Phase-amplitude coupling between the prefrontal theta phase and posterior gamma amplitudes is hypothesized to reflect long range communication between prefrontal control processes and the activation of posterior object representations accompanying mnemonic processing.
Keywords: Neuronal oscillations; Memory retrieval; Theta–gamma phase-amplitude coupling; Cross frequency coupling

Xingyuan Wang, Zongyu Wang, The method for image retrieval based on multi-factors correlation utilizing block truncation coding, Pattern Recognition, Volume 47, Issue 10, October 2014, Pages 3293-3303, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2014.04.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320314001666)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we proposed multi-factors correlation (MFC) to describe the image, structure element correlation (SEC), gradient value correlation (GVC) and gradient direction correlation (GDC). At first, the RGB color space image is converted to a bitmap image and a mean color component image utilizing the block truncation coding (BTC). Then, three correlations will be used to extract the image feature. The structure elements can effectively represent the bitmap which is generated by BTC, and SEC can effectively denote the bitmap׳s structure and the correlation of the block in the bitmap. GVC and GDC can effectively denote the gradient relation, which is computed by a mean color component image. Formed by SEC, GVC and GDC, the image feature vectors can effectively represent the image. In the end, the results demonstrate that the method has better performance than other image retrieval methods in the experiment.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval; Block truncation coding; Multi-factors correlation; Structure element correlation; Gradient value correlation; Gradient direction correlation

Jianqiang Wang, Douglas W. Oard, Matching meaning for cross-language information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 48, Issue 4, July 2012, Pages 631-653, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2011.09.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457311000999)
Abstract: This article describes a framework for cross-language information retrieval that efficiently leverages statistical estimation of translation probabilities. The framework provides a unified perspective into which some earlier work on techniques for cross-language information retrieval based on translation probabilities can be cast. Modeling synonymy and filtering translation probabilities using bidirectional evidence are shown to yield a balance between retrieval effectiveness and query-time (or indexing-time) efficiency that seems well suited large-scale applications. Evaluations with six test collections show consistent improvements over strong baselines.
Keywords: Cross-language IR; Statistical machine translation

Yong Sang Jo, June-Seek Choi, Memory retrieval in response to partial cues requires NMDA receptor-dependent neurotransmission in the medial prefrontal cortex, Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, Volume 109, March 2014, Pages 20-26, ISSN 1074-7427, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nlm.2013.11.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1074742713002219)
Abstract: Abstract
The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) has been suggested to play a crucial role in retrieving detailed contextual information about a previous learning episode in response to a single retrieval cue. However, few studies investigated the neurochemical mechanisms that mediate the prefrontal retrieval process. In the current study, we examined whether N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) in the mPFC were necessary for retrieval of a well-learned spatial location on the basis of partial or degraded spatial cues. Rats were initially trained to find a hidden platform in the Morris water maze using four extramaze cues in the surrounding environment. Their retrieval performance was subsequently tested under different cue conditions. Infusions of DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV), a NMDAR antagonist, significantly disrupted memory retrieval when three of the original cues were removed. By contrast, APV injections into the mPFC did not affect animals’ retrieval performance when the original cues were presented or when three novels landmarks were added alongside the original cues. These results indicate that prefrontal NMDARs are required for memory retrieval when allocentric spatial information is degraded. NMDAR-dependent neurotransmission in the mPFC may facilitate an active retrieval process to reactivate complete contextual representations associated with partial retrieval cues.
Keywords: Prefrontal cortex; Memory retrieval; NMDA receptors; Spatial memory; Rat

Michal Biran, Naama Friedmann, The representation of lexical-syntactic information: Evidence from syntactic and lexical retrieval impairments in aphasia, Cortex, Volume 48, Issue 9, October 2012, Pages 1103-1127, ISSN 0010-9452, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cortex.2011.05.024.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010945211001687)
Abstract: This study explored lexical-syntactic information – syntactic information that is stored in the lexicon – and its relation to syntactic and lexical impairments in aphasia. We focused on two types of lexical-syntactic information: predicate argument structure (PAS) of verbs (the number and types of arguments the verb selects) and grammatical gender of nouns. The participants were 17 Hebrew-speaking individuals with aphasia who had a syntactic deficit (agrammatism) or a lexical retrieval deficit (anomia) located at the semantic lexicon, the phonological output lexicon, or the phonological output buffer. After testing the participants’ syntactic and lexical retrieval abilities and establishing the functional loci of their deficits, we assessed their PAS and grammatical gender knowledge. This assessment included sentence completion, sentence production, sentence repetition, and grammaticality judgment tasks. The participants’ performance on these tests yielded several important dissociations. Three agrammatic participants had impaired syntax but unimpaired PAS knowledge. Three agrammatic participants had impaired syntax but unimpaired grammatical gender knowledge. This indicates that lexical-syntactic information is represented separately from syntax, and can be spared even when syntax at the sentence level, such as embedding and movement are impaired. All 5 individuals with phonological output buffer impairment and all 3 individuals with phonological output lexicon impairment had preserved lexical-syntactic knowledge. These selective impairments indicate that lexical-syntactic information is represented at a lexical stage prior to the phonological lexicon and the phonological buffer. Three participants with impaired PAS (aPASia) and impaired grammatical gender who showed intact lexical-semantic knowledge indicate that the lexical-syntactic information is represented separately from the semantic lexicon. This led us to conclude that lexical-syntactic information is stored in a separate syntactic lexicon. A double dissociation between PAS and grammatical gender impairments indicated that different types of lexical-syntactic information are represented separately in this syntactic lexicon.
Keywords: Aphasia; Predicate argument structure (PAS); Grammatical gender; Hebrew; Syntactic lexicon

Sunanda Vashisth, Hukum Singh, A.K. Yadav, Kehar Singh, Image encryption using fractional Mellin transform, structured phase filters, and phase retrieval, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 125, Issue 18, September 2014, Pages 5309-5315, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2014.06.068.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S003040261400713X)
Abstract: Abstract
An image encryption scheme has been presented by using two structured phase masks in the fractional Mellin transform (FrMT) plane of a system, employing a phase retrieval technique. Since FrMT is a non-linear integral transform, its use enhances the system security. We also add further security features by carrying out spatial filtering in the frequency domain by using a combination of two phase masks: a toroidal zone plate (TZP) and a radial Hilbert mask (RHM). These masks together increase the key space making the system more secure. The phase key used in decryption has been obtained by applying an iterative phase retrieval algorithm based on the fractional Fourier transform. The algorithm uses amplitude constraints of secret target image and the ciphertext (encrypted image) obtained from multiplication of fractional Mellin transformed arbitrary input image and the two phase masks (TZP and RHM). The proposed encryption scheme has been validated for a few grayscale images, by numerical simulations. The efficacy of the scheme has been evaluated by computing mean-squared-error (MSE) between the secret target image and the decrypted image. The sensitivity analysis of the decryption process to variations in various encryption parameters has also been carried out.
Keywords: Fractional Mellin transform; Structured phase masks; Toroidal zone plate; Radial Hilbert mask; Phase retrieval algorithm

P. Vijaya Bhaskar Reddy, A. Rama Mohan Reddy, Content based image indexing and retrieval using directional local extrema and magnitude patterns, AEU - International Journal of Electronics and Communications, Volume 68, Issue 7, July 2014, Pages 637-643, ISSN 1434-8411, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aeue.2014.01.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1434841114000284)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we integrate the concept of directional local extremas and their magnitude based patterns for content based image indexing and retrieval. The standard ditectional local extrama pattern (DLEP) extracts the directional edge information based on local extrema in 0°, 45°, 90°, and 135° directions in an image. However, they are not considering the magnitudes of local extremas. The proposed method integrates these two concepts for better retrieval performance. The sign DLEP (SDLEP) operator is a generalized DLEP operator and magnitude DLEP (MDLEP) operator is calculated using magnitudes of local extremas. The performance of the proposed method is compared with DLEP, local binary patterns (LBPs), block-based LBP (BLK_LBP), center-symmetric local binary pattern (CS-LBP), local edge patterns for segmentation (LEPSEG) and local edge patterns for image retrieval (LEPINV) methods by conducting two experiments on benchmark databases, viz. Corel-5K and Corel-10K databases. The results after being investigated show a significant improvement in terms of their evaluation measures as compared to other existing methods on respective databases.
Keywords: Ditectional local extrema patterns (DLEPs); Local binary patterns (LBPs); Image retrieval; Pattern recognition; Databases

Kai Tong, Fengge Su, Daqing Yang, Zhenchun Hao, Evaluation of satellite precipitation retrievals and their potential utilities in hydrologic modeling over the Tibetan Plateau, Journal of Hydrology, Volume 519, Part A, 27 November 2014, Pages 423-437, ISSN 0022-1694, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2014.07.044.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022169414005617)
Abstract: Summary
In this study, we evaluate four widely used global high-resolution satellite precipitation products against gauge observations over the Tibetan Plateau (TP). We also investigate the capability of the satellite products in streamflow simulations using the VIC hydrological model. Results show that the 3B42 and CMORPH perform better than the 3B42RT and PERSIANN at both plateau and basin scales. The 3B42RT and PERSIANN considerably overestimate the gauge precipitation estimates almost over the entire plateau, and the PERSIANN fail to capture the spatial and temporal pattern of the gauge precipitation estimates. For different satellite estimates, the error sources are systematically different for various seasons. For the 3B42, the miss bias is the main problem. The CMORPH exhibits obvious negative hit bias and miss bias in the rainy season and false-rain bias in the non-rainy season. The total bias in the 3B42RT and PERSIANN mainly attribute to positive hit bias in the rainy season and false-rain bias in the non-rainy season. The 3B42RT and PERSIANN show little capability for streamflow simulations over the TP, while the CMORPH exhibits an encouraging potential for hydrological applications in this regions in spite of the general underestimates. The 3B42 shows comparable performance to the CMA (China Meteorological Administration) data in both monthly and daily streamflow simulations mostly due to the monthly gauge adjustment involved in it.
Keywords: Satellite precipitation retrievals; VIC hydrological model; Streamflow simulation; Tibetan Plateau

A.P. Konijnenberg, W.M.J. Coene, H.P. Urbach, Non-iterative phase retrieval by phase modulation through a single parameter, Ultramicroscopy, Volume 174, March 2017, Pages 70-78, ISSN 0304-3991, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ultramic.2016.12.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030439911630239X)
Abstract: Abstract
We report on a novel non-iterative phase retrieval method with which the complex-valued transmission function of an object can be retrieved with a non-iterative computation, with a limited number of intensity measurements. The measurements are taken in either real space or Fourier space, and for each measurement the phase in its dual space is modulated according to a single optical parameter. The requirement found for the phase modulation function is a general one, which therefore allows for plenty of customization in this method. It is shown that quantitative Zernike phase contrast imaging is one special case of this general method. With simulations we investigate the sampling requirements for a microscopy setup and for a Coherent Diffraction Imaging (CDI) setup.

Muwei Jian, Kin-Man Lam, Face-image retrieval based on singular values and potential-field representation, Signal Processing, Volume 100, July 2014, Pages 9-15, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2014.01.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168414000073)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, an efficient method based on singular values and potential-field representation is proposed for face-image retrieval. Firstly, we theoretically prove that the leading singular values of an image can be used as a rotation-shift-scale-invariant global feature. Then, for the feature-extraction stage, we exploit these special properties of the singular values to devise a compact, global feature for face-image representation. We also use the singular values of the potential field derived from edge gradients to enhance the retrieval performance. Experimental results based on the GTAV database show that the use of singular values as rotation-shift-scale-invariant global features is able to produce plausible retrieval results.
Keywords: Face-image retrieval; Potential-field representation; Singular values; Rotation-shift-scale-invariant feature

William E. Patarroyo, Milady García-Perez, Marisol Lamprea, Alejandro Múnera, Julieta Troncoso, Vibrissal paralysis produces increased corticosterone levels and impairment of spatial memory retrieval, Behavioural Brain Research, Volume 320, 1 March 2017, Pages 58-66, ISSN 0166-4328, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbr.2016.11.045.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166432816311561)
Abstract: Abstract
This research was aimed at establishing how the absence of active whisking in rats affects acquisition and recovery of spatial memory. The mystacial vibrissae were irreversibly paralyzed by cutting the facial nerve’s mandibular and buccal branches bilaterally in the facial nerve lesion group (N = 14); control animals were submitted to sham-surgery (N = 15). Sham-operated (N = 11) and facial nerve-lesioned (N = 10) animals were trained (one session, eight acquisition trials) and tested 24 h later in a circular Barnes maze. It was found that facial nerve lesioned-animals adequately acquired the spatial task, but had impaired recovery of it when tested 24 h after training as compared to control ones. Plasma corticosterone levels were measured after memory testing in four randomly chosen animals of each trained group and after a single training trial in the maze in additional facial nerve-lesioned (N = 4) and sham-operated animals (N = 4). Significant differences respecting the elevation of corticosterone concentration after either a single training trial or memory testing indicated that stress response was enhanced in facial nerve-lesioned animals as compared to control ones. Increased corticosterone levels during training and testing might have elicited the observed whisker paralysis-induced spatial memory retrieval impairment.
Keywords: Vibrissae; Rat; Spatial memory; Corticosterone; Stress; Barnes circular maze

Chih-Chiang Wei, Meta-heuristic Bayesian networks retrieval combined polarization corrected temperature and scattering index for precipitations, Neurocomputing, Volume 136, 20 July 2014, Pages 71-81, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.01.030.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231214002240)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper proposes Bayesian networks (BNs) that combine polarization corrected temperature (PCT) and scattering index (SI) methods to identify rainfall intensity. To learn BN network structures, meta-heuristic techniques including tabu search (TS), simulated annealing (SA) and genetic algorithm (GA) were empirically evaluated and compared for efficiency. The proposed models were applied to the Tanshui river basin in Taiwan. The meteorological data from the Special Sensor Microwave/Imager (SSM/I) of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) comprises seven passive microwave brightness temperatures, and was used to detect rain rates. The data consisted of 71 typhoons affecting the watershed during 2000–2012. A preliminary analysis using simple meta-heuristic BNs identified the main attributes, namely the brightness temperatures of 19, 22, 37 and 85 GHz for rainfall retrieval. Based on the preliminary analysis of a simple BN run, the advanced BNs combined with SI and PCT successfully demonstrated improved rain rate retrieval accuracy. To compare the proposed meta-heuristic BNs, the traditional SI method, the SI-based support vector regression model (SI-SVR), and artificial neural network (ANN) were used as benchmarks. The results showed that (1) meta-heuristic BN techniques can be used to identify the vital attributes of the rainfall retrieval problem and their causal relationships and (2) according to a comparison of BNs combined with PCT and SI and artificial intelligence (AI)-based models (SI-SVR and ANN), in heavy, torrential, and pouring rainfall, models of BNs combined with PCT and SI provide a superior retrieval performance than that of AI-based models. Therefore, this study confirms that meta-heuristic BNs combined with PCT and SI is an efficient tool for addressing rainfall retrieval problems.
Keywords: Bayesian network; Heuristic technique; Precipitation; Retrieval

Xinjun Zhu, Chen Tang, Biyuan Li, Chen Sun, Linlin Wang, Phase retrieval from single frame projection fringe pattern with variational image decomposition, Optics and Lasers in Engineering, Volume 59, August 2014, Pages 25-33, ISSN 0143-8166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optlaseng.2014.03.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0143816614000621)
Abstract: Abstract
Phase retrieval from single frame projection fringe pattern is of fundamental importance, and is also a challenging problem in fringe projection measurement. In this paper, we present a new method for phase retrieval from a single frame projection fringe pattern based on variational image decomposition (VID) methods. We propose a new image decomposition model TV-G-Shearlet in order to effectively split a projection fringe pattern into background part, fringe part and noise part. The performance of the proposed approach is verified by simulated and real projection fringes as well as the comparison with the widely used and well-known Fourier transform method and wavelet transform method.
Keywords: Projection fringe pattern; Phase retrieval; Fourier transform; Shearlet transform; Variational image decomposition

Alfredo Rondinella, Saverio Affatato, Elia Marin, Wenliang Zhu, Bryan J. McEntire, B. Sonny Bal, Toshiyuki Tateiwa, Kengo Yamamoto, Giovanni Valdré, Giuseppe Pezzotti, In toto microscopic scanning of ZTA femoral head retrievals using CAD-assisted confocal Raman spectroscopy, Materials & Design, Volume 116, 15 February 2017, Pages 631-637, ISSN 0264-1275, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matdes.2016.12.064.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0264127516315908)
Abstract: Abstract
The purpose of this work is to establish a protocol, which combines CAD modeling to non-destructive microscopic techniques of confocal Raman micro-spectroscopy and laser microscopy, to assess the in-vivo hydrothermal stability of ZTA femoral head retrievals. The combined effects of wear, biological environment, and in vivo occurring peculiar events as metal staining were evaluated on five retrieved ZTA femoral heads with implantation time ranging from 9 to 106 months. The protocol relies on the application of a polar grid on the entire surface of the head, which divides it into small sectors; each sector is then automatically screened with micrometer resolution. Maps are finally linked to each other and an in-toto view of the retrieved head becomes available in three dimensions. Upon combining analytical techniques with a solid modeling computer-aided design (CAD) software, it becomes possible to develop a 3D model of the femoral head, which comprehensively describes topographic, crystallographic, and micromechanical characteristics of the entire surface and immediate sub-surface. The combination of CAD, polarized Raman spectroscopy, and laser microscopy has led to in-toto screening of femoral head with micrometer-scale resolution, thus providing a new and comprehensive protocol for both quality assessments on new components and failure analysis on retrievals.
Keywords: Zirconia-toughened alumina; Confocal Raman spectroscopy; Phase transformation; Metal contamination; 3D-Cad

Huaqun Wang, Qianhong Wu, Bo Qin, Josep Domingo-Ferrer, FRR: Fair remote retrieval of outsourced private medical records in electronic health networks, Journal of Biomedical Informatics, Volume 50, August 2014, Pages 226-233, ISSN 1532-0464, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2014.02.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046414000458)
Abstract: Abstract
Cloud computing is emerging as the next-generation IT architecture. However, cloud computing also raises security and privacy concerns since the users have no physical control over the outsourced data. This paper focuses on fairly retrieving encrypted private medical records outsourced to remote untrusted cloud servers in the case of medical accidents and disputes. Our goal is to enable an independent committee to fairly recover the original private medical records so that medical investigation can be carried out in a convincing way. We achieve this goal with a fair remote retrieval (FRR) model in which either t investigation committee members cooperatively retrieve the original medical data or none of them can get any information on the medical records. We realize the first FRR scheme by exploiting fair multi-member key exchange and homomorphic privately verifiable tags. Based on the standard computational Diffie–Hellman (CDH) assumption, our scheme is provably secure in the random oracle model (ROM). A detailed performance analysis and experimental results show that our scheme is efficient in terms of communication and computation.
Keywords: Cloud computing; Medical records; Fair remote data retrieval

Ahmed Al-Nazer, Tarek Helmy, Semantic Query-manipulation and Personalized Retrieval of Health, Food and Nutrition Information, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 19, 2013, Pages 163-170, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2013.06.026.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050913006340)
Abstract: Abstract
Semantic manipulation of website content is important in many domains, but it is critical in some domains, such as health and nutrition. In such domains, users need to retrieve precise, trusted, and relevant health and food information. Even with a high-quality, semantic, Web-based search engine, it is not enough for retrieving the precise health- and nutrition-related information. That is because the retrieved information might not fit the user's specific needs due to the huge amount of information scattered throughout the Web. Thus, semantic query manipulation and personalization techniques will help and guide users in retrieving more relevant health and nutrition information consistent with their needs. In this paper, we present our efforts to develop a framework for semantic query manipulation and personalization of health and nutrition information. We propose a user profile ontology based on culture, language, health and nutrition. The profile is used to enrich the query and to personalize the retrieved health and food information to be consistent with the user's needs. Moreover, we propose query templates that are used for semantic manipulation and mapping of the user's natural language queries into ontology-based queries. We have implemented the proposed framework, and the empirical evaluations show promising improvements in the relevancy of the retrieved results and of the user's satisfaction.
Keywords: Personalization; Query manipulation; Food and nutrition; Semantic Web; Ontology

Jeffrey D. Karpicke, Melissa Lehman, William R. Aue, Chapter Seven - Retrieval-Based Learning: An Episodic Context Account, In: Brian H. Ross, Editor(s), Psychology of Learning and Motivation, Academic Press, 2014, Volume 61, Pages 237-284, ISSN 0079-7421, ISBN 9780128002834, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-800283-4.00007-1.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128002834000071)
Abstract: Abstract
Practicing retrieval is a powerful way to promote learning and long-term retention. This chapter addresses the theoretical underpinnings of retrieval-based learning. We review methodological issues in retrieval practice research, identify key findings to be accounted for, and evaluate current candidate theories. We propose an episodic context account of retrieval-based learning, which explains retrieval practice in terms of context reinstatement, context updating, and restriction of the search set. Retrieval practice involves attempting to reinstate a prior learning context, and when retrieval is successful, the representation of context is updated to include features of retrieved contexts and the current context. Future retrieval is enhanced because updated context representations can be used to restrict the search set and hone in on a desired target. The context account accommodates a wide variety of phenomena in the retrieval practice literature and provides a comprehensive and cohesive account of retrieval-based learning.
Keywords: Retrieval practice; Testing effect; Learning; Context; Episodic memory

Jayant Kumar, Peng Ye, David Doermann, Structural similarity for document image classification and retrieval, Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 43, 1 July 2014, Pages 119-126, ISSN 0167-8655, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2013.10.030.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167865513004224)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a novel approach to defining document image structural similarity for the applications of classification and retrieval. We first build a codebook of SURF descriptors extracted from a set of representative training images. We then encode each document and model the spatial relationships between them by recursively partitioning the image and computing histograms of codewords in each partition. A random forest classifier is trained with the resulting features, and used for classification and retrieval. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on table and tax form retrieval, and show that the proposed method outperforms previous approaches even when the training data is limited.
Keywords: Structural similarity; Retrieval; Classification; Random forest

Subrahmanyam Murala, Q.M. Jonathan Wu, Expert content-based image retrieval system using robust local patterns, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 25, Issue 6, August 2014, Pages 1324-1334, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2014.05.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320314000935)
Abstract: Abstract
A new image indexing and retrieval algorithm for content based image retrieval is proposed in this paper. The local region of the image is represented by making the use of local difference operator (LDO), separating it into two components i.e. sign and magnitude. The sign LBP operator (S_LBP) is a generalized LBP operator. The magnitude LBP (M_LBP) operator is calculated using the magnitude of LDO. A robust LBP (RLBP) operator is presented employing robust S_LBP and robust M_LBP. Further, the combination of Gabor transform and RLBP operator has also been presented. The robustness is established by conducting four experiments on different image database i.e. Corel 1000 (DB1), Brodatz texture database (DB2) and MIT VisTex database (DB3) under different lighting (illumination) and noise conditions. Investigations reveal a promising achievement of the technique presented when compared to S_LBP and other existing transform domain techniques in terms of their evaluation measures.
Keywords: Local binary pattern (LBP); Content based image retrieval (CBIR); Texture; Gabor transform (GT); Feature extraction; Multi-scale features; Local difference operator (LDO); Database

Jeonghyun Kim, Scenarios in information seeking and information retrieval research: A methodological application and discussion, Library & Information Science Research, Volume 34, Issue 4, October 2012, Pages 300-307, ISSN 0740-8188, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lisr.2012.04.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0740818812000588)
Abstract: Scenario has been used as a research tool to study information seeking and information retrieval. This review of the nature and development of scenario use reveals a variety of applications and a number of practical methodological issues. While scenarios have a number of advantages, there are limitations. Consideration of these advantages and challenges leads to recommendations for constructing and presenting scenarios.

Pedro Bekinschtein, Noelia Weisstaub, Role of PFC during retrieval of recognition memory in rodents, Journal of Physiology-Paris, Volume 108, Issues 4–6, September–December 2014, Pages 252-255, ISSN 0928-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jphysparis.2014.03.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0928425714000114)
Abstract: Abstract
One of the challenges for memory researches is the study of the neurobiology of episodic memory which is defined by the integration of all the different components of experiences that support the conscious recollection of events. The features of episodic memory includes a particular object or person (“what”), the context in which the experience took place (“where”) and the particular time at which the event occurred (“when”). Although episodic memory has been mainly studied in humans, there are many studies that demonstrate these features in non-human animals. Here, we summarize a set of studies that employ different versions of recognition memory tasks in animals to study the role of the medial prefrontal cortex in episodic memory.
Keywords: Retrieval; mPFC; Recognition memory; Rodents; Behavior

Paola Garcia-delaTorre, Consuelo Pérez-Sánchez, Kioko Guzmán-Ramos, Federico Bermúdez-Rattoni, Role of glutamate receptors of central and basolateral amygdala nuclei on retrieval and reconsolidation of taste aversive memory, Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, Volume 111, May 2014, Pages 35-40, ISSN 1074-7427, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nlm.2014.03.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1074742714000495)
Abstract: Abstract
There are a number of experiments showing an important involvement of amygdala N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors on consolidation of conditioned taste aversion (CTA) memory. Interestingly, recent evidence has shown that α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptors are particularly involved in CTA retrieval. Memory reconsolidation has been proposed as a destabilization and re-stabilization process induced by memory reactivation. We have recently suggested that reconsolidation could be enabled in the absence of retrieval. Hence, we decided to analyze the participation of AMPA and NMDA receptors of the central (CeA) and basolateral amygdala (BLA) in CTA memory retrieval and reconsolidation. To do so, we tested whether administrations of an AMPA receptor blocker (NBQX) or an NMDA receptor blocker (APV) 15 min before a second acquisition trial could have effects on taste aversion. We found that administration of NBQX in the BLA blocked retrieval, whereas APV blocked reconsolidation in the BLA, and consolidation in the CeA. When we administered both NBQX and APV into the BLA before the second acquisition trial, results showed impairment of both retrieval and reconsolidation. These results further support the idea that reconsolidation is independent of retrieval, since retrieval blockade in the BLA did not impair memory reconsolidation. These results suggest that glutamate receptors have different participation on retrieval and reconsolidation of CTA and further support the hypothesis that these two processes could be independent.
Keywords: Glutamate; Amygdala; Taste recognition; Retrieval; Reconsolidation

Laura Dreifus, Harald Engler, Johanna Kissler, Retrieval-induced forgetting under psychosocial stress: No reduction by delayed stress and beta-adrenergic blockade, Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, Volume 110, April 2014, Pages 35-46, ISSN 1074-7427, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nlm.2014.01.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1074742714000112)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieval-induced forgetting (RIF) is the phenomenon that ‘retrieval-practice’, the repeated retrieval of a subset of initially learned material, can impair the recall of episodically related memories. Previous studies showed that RIF is eliminated when retrieval-practice is carried out under psycho-social stress, anxiety, or in negative mood. However, pharmacological manipulation by hydrocortisone did not eliminate the effect. This study investigated the effect of beta-adrenergic blockade on stress-induced modulations of RIF, addressing possible interactive effects of the glucocorticoid and sympatho–adrenomedullary systems. Participants learned categorized word lists and then received either 60 mg propranolol or a placebo. After 90 min they were exposed to the TSST. A third group did not receive any medication and performed a non-stressful control task with the same timing as the other two groups. Finally, all participants underwent retrieval-practice and final recall. Both TSST groups exhibited a stress-induced increase in cortisol-levels, and the placebo group also exhibited large increases in markers of sympathetic nervous system activity and more psychological distress at the time of retrieval-practice. Although, overall recall was poorer under stress, an overall RIF effect emerged irrespective of group and showed no clear modulation by stress with or without beta-adrenergic blockade. In previous demonstrations of RIF elimination by negative emotion, state induction and retrieval-practice followed very briefly after initial learning. Given that both the previous study of hydrocortisone effects on RIF and the present study used longer delays between learning and retrieval-practice, the possibility that stress effects on retrieval-practice eliminate RIF only relatively briefly after learning is discussed.
Keywords: Memory; Retrieval-induced forgetting; Psychosocial stress; HPA-axis; Adrenergic system; Trier Social Stress Test; Beta-blockade

Feng Wang, Lanfen Lin, Min Tang, A new sketch-based 3D model retrieval approach by using global and local features, Graphical Models, Volume 76, Issue 3, May 2014, Pages 128-139, ISSN 1524-0703, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gmod.2013.11.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1524070313000593)
Abstract: Abstract
With the rapid growth of available 3D models, fast retrieval of suitable 3D models has become a crucial task for industrial applications. This paper proposes a novel sketch-based 3D model retrieval approach which utilizes both global feature-based and local feature-based techniques. Unlike current approaches which use either global or local features, as well as do not take into account semantic relations between local features, we extract these two kinds of feature information from the representative 2D views of 3D models that can facilitate semantic description and retrieval for 3D models. Global features represent the gross exterior boundary shape information, and local features describe the interior details by compact visual words. Specifically, an improved bag-of-features method is provided to extract local features and their latent semantic relations. In addition, an efficient two-stage matching strategy is used to measure the distance between the query sketch and 3D models for selection and refinement. Experiment results demonstrate that our approach which combines these two kinds of complementary features significantly outperforms several state-of-the-art approaches.
Keywords: Sketch-based 3D model retrieval; Global features; Local features; Semantic relations

Marcin Radom, Agnieszka Rybarczyk, Renzo Kottmann, Piotr Formanowicz, Marta Szachniuk, Frank Oliver Glöckner, Dietrich Rebholz-Schuhmann, Jacek Błażewicz, Poseidon: An information retrieval and extraction system for metagenomic marine science, Ecological Informatics, Volume 12, November 2012, Pages 10-15, ISSN 1574-9541, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecoinf.2012.07.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574954112000696)
Abstract: Gathering data has always presented a considerable challenge for scientists, whether it is done in laboratories or through reading specialized journals. It becomes particularly difficult in fields that generate a lot of publications, such as marine microbiology. Professionals interested in environments of seas and oceans, and organisms inhabiting them are faced with a flood of information on a daily basis. It is so because new papers on genetic samples and metagenomes of marine origin are being issued, and that is why the participants of the MetaFunctions project found it necessary to develop a new efficient way of extracting, processing, and storing data. As a result a new system, called Poseidon, was created, offering a convenient alternative to manual extraction of marine microbiology-related information.
Keywords: Marine; Metagenomes; Environmental; Freshwater; Data acquisition; Data mining

Matthew Fickus, Dustin G. Mixon, Aaron A. Nelson, Yang Wang, Phase retrieval from very few measurements, Linear Algebra and its Applications, Volume 449, 15 May 2014, Pages 475-499, ISSN 0024-3795, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.laa.2014.02.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0024379514000780)
Abstract: Abstract
In many applications, signals are measured according to a linear process, but the phases of these measurements are often unreliable or not available. To reconstruct the signal, one must perform a process known as phase retrieval. This paper focuses on completely determining signals with as few intensity measurements as possible, and on efficient phase retrieval algorithms from such measurements. For the case of complex M-dimensional signals, we construct a measurement ensemble of size 4 M − 4 which yields injective intensity measurements; this is conjectured to be the smallest such ensemble. For the case of real signals, we devise a theory of “almost” injective intensity measurements, and we characterize such ensembles. Later, we show that phase retrieval from M + 1 almost injective intensity measurements is NP -hard, indicating that computationally efficient phase retrieval must come at the price of measurement redundancy.
Keywords: Phase retrieval; Informationally complete; Unit norm tight frames; Computational complexity

P.V. Vidya, P.C. Reghu Raj, V. Jayan, Web Page Ranking Using Multilingual Information Search Algorithm - A Novel Approach, Procedia Technology, Volume 24, 2016, Pages 1240-1247, ISSN 2212-0173, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.protcy.2016.05.102.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212017316301918)
Abstract: Abstract
The goal of an information retrieval system is to provide the information that is relevant to the user's query. In some cases the information relevant to the user request may not exist in the user's native language. Situations may also arise where the user is able to read documents in languages different from the native one, but might have difficulty in formulating queries in them. The main intention behind Multilingual Information Retrieval is to find the relevant information available irrespective of the language used in the query.
Keywords: Multilingual Information Retrieval; Google Translate API; Google Search; Inverted Index; Word Frequency

Ulysse Fortier-Gauthier, Nicolas Moffat, Roberto Dell'Acqua, John J. McDonald, Pierre Jolicœur, Contralateral cortical organisation of information in visual short-term memory: Evidence from lateralized brain activity during retrieval, Neuropsychologia, Volume 50, Issue 8, July 2012, Pages 1748-1758, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2012.03.032.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393212001492)
Abstract: We studied brain activity during retention and retrieval phases of two visual short-term memory (VSTM) experiments. Experiment 1 used a balanced memory array, with one color stimulus in each hemifield, followed by a retention interval and a central probe, at the fixation point that designated the target stimulus in memory about which to make a determination of orientation. Retrieval of information from VSTM was associated with an event-related lateralization (ERL) with a contralateral negativity relative to the visual field from which the probed stimulus was originally encoded, suggesting a lateralized organization of VSTM. The scalp distribution of the retrieval ERL was more anterior than what is usually associated with simple maintenance activity, which is consistent with the involvement of different brain structures for these distinct visual memory mechanisms. Experiment 2 was like Experiment 1, but used an unbalanced memory array consisting of one lateral color stimulus in a hemifield and one color stimulus on the vertical mid-line. This design enabled us to separate lateralized activity related to target retrieval from distractor processing. Target retrieval was found to generate a negative-going ERL at electrode sites found in Experiment 1, and suggested representations were retrieved from anterior cortical structures. Distractor processing elicited a positive-going ERL at posterior electrodes sites, which could be indicative of a return to baseline of retention activity for the discarded memory of the now-irrelevant stimulus, or an active inhibition mechanism mediating distractor suppression.
Keywords: Visual short-term memory; EEG; TCN

Jim Jing-Yan Wang, Yijun Sun, From one graph to many: Ensemble transduction for content-based database retrieval, Knowledge-Based Systems, Volume 65, July 2014, Pages 31-37, ISSN 0950-7051, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2014.04.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705114001178)
Abstract: Abstract
Similarity learning plays a fundamental role in the problem of database retrieval and nearest classification problem. Traditional pairwise similarity measure ignores the contextual information, and the Graph Transduction (GT) has been proposed as a contextual similarity learning algorithm to utilize the contextual information, which is embedded in a nearest neighbor graph. On main shortage of this method is that it is difficult to choose the optimal graph since different graphs may focus on different aspects of the objects. Co-Transduction (CT) is lately proposed by fusing two different graphs. In this paper, we generalize this problem by using the ensemble of many candidate graphs with different models and parameters for transduction, by assuming that the optimal graph could be obtained by the weighted linear ensemble of these candidate graphs. The similarities and graph weights are modeled within one unified objective function, and optimized alternately in an iterative algorithm. The new proposed algorithm, named as Ensemble Transduction (ET), is tested on two challenging tasks and the experimental results show that it can outperform both the GT and CT.
Keywords: Content-based database retrieval; Contextual similarity; Graph transduction; Multi-Kernel Learning; Ensembel learning

Anthony Warford, Hameed Akbar, Deise Riberio, Antigen retrieval, blocking, detection and visualisation systems in immunohistochemistry: A review and practical evaluation of tyramide and rolling circle amplification systems, Methods, Volume 70, Issue 1, November 2014, Pages 28-33, ISSN 1046-2023, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymeth.2014.03.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1046202314000942)
Abstract: Abstract
To achieve specificity and sensitivity using immunohistochemistry it is necessary to combine the application of validated primary antibodies with optimised pre-treatment, detection and visualisation steps. The influence of these surrounding procedures is reviewed. A practical evaluation of tyramide signal amplification and rolling circle amplification detection methods is provided in which formalin fixed paraffin embedded sections of adenocarcinomas of breast, colon and lung together with squamous metaplasia of lung were immunostained with CD20 and CK19 primary antibodies. The results indicate that the detection systems are of comparable sensitivity and specificity.
Keywords: Immunohistochemistry; Antigen retrieval; Detection systems; Tyramide signal amplification; Rolling circle amplification

Claire Keogh, Emma Wallace, Kirsty K. O’Brien, Paul J. Murphy, Conor Teljeur, Brid McGrath, Susan M. Smith, Niall Doherty, Borislav D. Dimitrov, Tom Fahey, Optimized retrieval of primary care clinical prediction rules from MEDLINE to establish a web-based register, Journal of Clinical Epidemiology, Volume 64, Issue 8, August 2011, Pages 848-860, ISSN 0895-4356, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclinepi.2010.11.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0895435610004233)
Abstract: Objectives
Identifying clinical prediction rules (CPRs) for primary care from electronic databases is difficult. This study aims to identify a search filter to optimize retrieval of these to establish a register of CPRs for the Cochrane Primary Health Care field.
Study Design and Setting
Thirty primary care journals were manually searched for CPRs. This was compared with electronic search filters using alternative methodologies: (1) textword searching; (2) proximity searching; (3) inclusion terms using specific phrases and truncation; (4) exclusion terms; and (5) combinations of methodologies.
Results
We manually searched 6,344 articles, revealing 41 CPRs. Across the 45 search filters, sensitivities ranged from 12% to 98%, whereas specificities ranged from 43% to 100%. There was generally a trade-off between the sensitivity and specificity of each filter (i.e., the number of CPRs and total number of articles retrieved). Combining textword searching with the inclusion terms (using specific phrases) resulted in the highest sensitivity (98%) but lower specificity (59%) than other methods. The associated precision (2%) and accuracy (60%) were also low.
Conclusion
The novel use of combining textword searching with inclusion terms was considered the most appropriate for updating a register of primary care CPRs where sensitivity has to be optimized.
Keywords: Clinical prediction rules; Primary care; Medical information retrieval; Search filters; Proximity searching; Evidence-based medicine

Mohamed Slim Ben Mimoun, Marion Garnier, Richard Ladwein, Christophe Benavent, Determinants of e-consumer productivity in product retrieval on a commercial website: An experimental approach, Information & Management, Volume 51, Issue 4, June 2014, Pages 375-390, ISSN 0378-7206, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2014.02.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378720614000111)
Abstract: Abstract
This article investigates what determines e-consumer productivity, in the specific case of product retrieval, on a commercial website. With a 2 × 2 × 2 factorial design on 292 participants, an online experiment reveals that productivity in product retrieval (measured in terms of effectiveness, efficiency, and time) relates to website design (e.g., abstraction level of labels, animation), user characteristics (e.g., Internet experience, product category familiarity, cognitive absorption), and situational characteristics (e.g., task nature). The results also confirm interactive effects among the type of strategy used, the nature of the task, and the website design. These findings have notable implications for both research and practice.
Keywords: E-consumer productivity; Product retrieval; Site design; Online experiment; Cognitive absorption; Site complexity

I. Jeena Jacob, K.G. Srinivasagan, K. Jayapriya, Local Oppugnant Color Texture Pattern for image retrieval system, Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 42, 1 June 2014, Pages 72-78, ISSN 0167-8655, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2014.01.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167865514000312)
Abstract: Abstract
The current scenario of image retrieval pays attention to local texture patterns. The recently proposed Local Tetra Pattern (LTrP) represents the image by the directional information and gives promising results. This paper proposes Local Oppugnant Color Texture Pattern (LOCTP), an enhancement of LTrP, which is able to discriminate the information derived from spatial inter-chromatic texture patterns of different spectral channels within a region. It determines the relationship in terms of the intensity and directional information between the referenced pixels and their oppugnant neighbors. The LOCTP strives to use the harmonized link between color and texture, which helps the system to incorporate the human perception. The experimental analysis of the proposed method is done with state-of-art techniques by using standard image databases Brodatz texture database (DB1) and Corel database (DB2). Also, the evaluation has been done in various color models like YCbCr, HSV, Lab, and RGB. In addition, a feature-level fusion framework is used to combine the Colored Pattern Appearance Model (CPAM) and the LOCTP for getting better result in natural images. The experimental results show considerable improvement in terms of average precision, average recall and average retrieval rate when compared with the previous works.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval; Local Oppugnant Colored Texture Pattern; Colored Pattern Appearance Model

Guiguang Ding, Jile Zhou, Yuchen Guo, Zijia Lin, Sicheng Zhao, Jungong Han, Large-scale image retrieval with Sparse Embedded Hashing, Neurocomputing, Available online 14 February 2017, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2017.01.055.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217301601)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we present a novel sparsity-based hashing framework termed Sparse Embedded Hashing (SEH), exploring the technique of sparse coding. Unlike most of the existing systems that focus on finding either a better sparse representation in hash space or an optimal solution to preserve the pairwise similarity of the original data, we intend to solve these two problems in one goal. More specifically, SEH firstly generates sparse representations in a data-driven way, and then learns a projection matrix, taking sparse representing, affinity preserving and linear embedding into account. In order to make the learned compact features locality sensitive, SEH employs the matrix factorization technique to approximate the Euclidean structures of the original data. The usage of the matrix factorization enables the decomposed matrix to be constructed from either visual or textual features depending on which kind of Euclidean structure is preserved. Due to this flexibility, our SEH framework could handle both single-modal retrieval and cross-modal retrieval simultaneously. Experimental evidence shows this method achieves much better performance in both single- and cross-modal retrieval tasks as compared to state-of-the-art approaches.
Keywords: Hashing; Sparse coding; Matrix factorization

H.C. Wu, R.W.P. Luk, K.F. Wong, J.Y. Nie, A split-list approach for relevance feedback in information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 48, Issue 5, September 2012, Pages 969-977, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2012.03.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030645731200057X)
Abstract: In this paper we present a new algorithm for relevance feedback (RF) in information retrieval. Unlike conventional RF algorithms which use the top ranked documents for feedback, our proposed algorithm is a kind of active feedback algorithm which actively chooses documents for the user to judge. The objectives are (a) to increase the number of judged relevant documents and (b) to increase the diversity of judged documents during the RF process. The algorithm uses document-contexts by splitting the retrieval list into sub-lists according to the query term patterns that exist in the top ranked documents. Query term patterns include a single query term, a pair of query terms that occur in a phrase and query terms that occur in proximity. The algorithm is an iterative algorithm which takes one document for feedback in each of the iterations. We experiment with the algorithm using the TREC-6, -7, -8, -2005 and GOV2 data collections and we simulate user feedback using the TREC relevance judgements. From the experimental results, we show that our proposed split-list algorithm is better than the conventional RF algorithm and that our algorithm is more reliable than a similar algorithm using maximal marginal relevance.
Keywords: Active feedback; Document-context; Experimentation

J.S. Roberts, D. Tsivilis, A.R. Mayes, Strategic retrieval processing and the impact of knowing when a memory was first created, Brain and Cognition, Volume 86, April 2014, Pages 124-130, ISSN 0278-2626, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bandc.2014.02.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278262614000311)
Abstract: Abstract
Retrieval orientation refers to a process where participants strategically alter how a memory cue is processed in response to different task demands. In the present study we explored whether retrieval orientation is influenced by knowing when an old stimulus was first encoded. Participants completed separate remember/know test blocks for old items from a recent delay (40 min) and old items from a remote delay (48 h). Manipulations at encoding ensured that performance levels were matched between these two blocks, thus avoiding confounds with differences in retrieval effort. Importantly, a third test block comprised old items from both delays randomly intermixed. As the nature of the old items varies unpredictably in the mixed block, it should not be possibly to adopt a specific retrieval orientation and the mixed block therefore acts as a control condition. Participants saw the words “mixed,” “recent” or “remote” prior to each test block. Comparing ERPs from the recent and remote blocks permitted an investigation of whether participants alter their retrieval orientation in response to the specific length of the retention interval. Comparing ERPs from the pure (recent and remote) test blocks to ERPs from the mixed block permitted an investigation of whether delay information per se led to differences in retrieval strategy. Analysis of the ERP data found no differences between the recent and remote blocks. However, ERPs from these pure blocks were significantly less positive than ERPs from the mixed block from 200 ms towards the end of the epoch. The findings suggest that the delay information was useful in a general sense and encouraged retrieval strategies distinct from those engaged in the mixed block. We speculate that such strategies might relate to whether or not the retrieval search is specific and constrained and/or whether processes that serve to reinstate the original encoding context are engaged.
Keywords: Recognition memory; Retention interval; Event related potentials (ERPs); Retrieval orientation

Ji Yang, Bin Xu, Binbin Lin, Xiaofei He, Multi-Query Parallel Field Ranking for image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 135, 5 July 2014, Pages 192-202, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2013.12.033.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231214000514)
Abstract: Abstract
Relevance feedback image retrieval is an effective scheme bridging the gap between low-level features and high-level concepts. It is essentially a multi-query ranking problem where the user submitted image and provided positive examples are considered as queries. Most of the existing approaches either merge the multiple queries into a single query or consider them independently, and then the geodesic distances on the image manifold are used to measure the similarities between the query image and the other images in database. In this paper, we propose a novel approach called Multi-Query Parallel Field Ranking (MQPFR) which finds an optimal ranking function whose gradient field is as parallel as possible. In this way, the obtained ranking function varies linearly along the geodesics of the data manifold, and achieves the highest value at the multiple queries simultaneously. Extensive experiments are carried out on a large image database and demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Parallel vector field; Multi-query

Jean Martinet, Yves Chiaramella, Philippe Mulhem, A relational vector space model using an advanced weighting scheme for image retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 47, Issue 3, May 2011, Pages 391-414, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2010.10.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457310000907)
Abstract: In this paper, we lay out a relational approach for indexing and retrieving photographs from a collection. The increase of digital image acquisition devices, combined with the growth of the World Wide Web, requires the development of information retrieval (IR) models and systems that provide fast access to images searched by users in databases. The aim of our work is to develop an IR model suited to images, integrating rich semantics for representing this visual data and user queries, which can also be applied to large corpora.

Our proposal merges the vector space model of IR – widely tested in textual IR – with the conceptual graph (CG) formalism, based on the use of star graphs (i.e. elementary CGs made up of a single relation connected to some concepts representing image objects). A novel weighting scheme for star graphs, based on image objects size, position, and image heterogeneity is outlined. We show that integrating relations into the vector space model through star graphs increases the system’s precision, and that the results are comparable to those from graph projection systems, and also that they shorten processing time for user queries.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Vector space model; Conceptual graph; Image indexing; Weighting scheme; Evaluation

Hung-Hsu Tsai, Bae-Muu Chang, Shin-Hung Liou, Rotation-invariant texture image retrieval using particle swarm optimization and support vector regression, Applied Soft Computing, Volume 17, April 2014, Pages 127-139, ISSN 1568-4946, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2013.12.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494613004225)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a novel rotation-invariant texture image retrieval using particle swarm optimization (PSO) and support vector regression (SVR), which is called the RTIRPS method. It respectively employs log-polar mapping (LPM) combined with fast Fourier transformation (FFT), Gabor filter, and Zernike moment to extract three kinds of rotation-invariant features from gray-level images. Subsequently, the PSO algorithm is utilized to optimize the RTIRPS method. Experimental results demonstrate that the RTIRPS method can achieve satisfying results and outperform the existing well-known rotation-invariant image retrieval methods under considerations here. Also, in order to reduce calculation complexity for image feature matching, the RTIRPS method employs the SVR to construct an efficient scheme for the image retrieval.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Log-polar mapping; Fast Fourier transform; Zernike moment; Particle swarm optimization; Support vector regression

Jun Li, Chang Xu, Wankou Yang, Changyin Sun, SPA: Spatially Pooled Attributes for image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Available online 6 February 2017, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.10.074.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217301479)
Abstract: Abstract
Semantic gap, which refers to the limitation that low-level hand-crafted visual features insufficiently encode high-level semantic concepts contained in the images, has been a challenging issue in image retrieval and significantly impairs the performance of real-world retrieval systems. Despite massive efforts that have been devoted to developing effective image signatures, e.g., Bag-of-Visual-Words (BOVW), the Fisher Vector (FV) and the Vector of Locally Aggregated Descriptors (VLAD), these mid-level image features still fail to handle the problem of semantic gap and thus lead to suboptimal results. Towards this end, a large body of work focuses on introducing attribute learning into a variety of vision applications. As inherent nature that describes the intrinsic properties of objects, such as color, shape and rigidity, learned attributes serve as intermediate representations that bridge the semantic gap. However, conventional attribute embedding methods are generally developed for image global representation while ignoring local spatial cues, which prevents them from achieving desirable performance. In this paper, we attempt to encode weak spatial information into attribute embedding for effective image retrieval. Specifically, we partition the image into regular grids and extract Classemes attribute vector from each patch, which results in a large pool of Classemes descriptors followed by VLAD aggregation for generating holistic representation. In order to produce a compact and discriminative code, we employ a piecewise Fisher Discriminant Analysis (FDA) for dimension reduction and concatenate all the compressed Classemes into a single vector coined Spatially Pooled Attributes (SPA). Thorough experimental evaluation and comparative study on three public benchmarks demonstrate the superiority of the proposed approach.
Keywords: Semantic gap; Attribute embedding; Local spatial cues; Classemes attribute vector; Spatially Pooled Attributes (SPA)

Max Toepper, Hans J. Markowitsch, Helge Gebhardt, Thomas Beblo, Eva Bauer, Friedrich G. Woermann, Martin Driessen, Gebhard Sammer, The impact of age on prefrontal cortex integrity during spatial working memory retrieval, Neuropsychologia, Volume 59, July 2014, Pages 157-168, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2014.04.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393214001481)
Abstract: Abstract
Healthy aging is accompanied by a decline in spatial working memory that is related to functional cerebral changes within the spatial working memory network. In the last decade, important findings were presented concerning the location (e.g., prefrontal), kind (e.g., ‘underactivation,’ ‘overactivation’), and meaning (e.g., functional deficits, compensation) of these changes. Less is known about how functional connections between specific brain regions are affected by age and how these changes are related to behavioral performance. To address these issues, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine retrieval-related brain activation and functional connectivity in 18 younger individuals and 18 older individuals. We assessed working memory with a modified version of the Corsi Block-Tapping test, which requires the storage and reproduction of spatial target sequences. Analyses of group differences in brain activation and functional connectivity included comparisons between younger individuals, older individuals, older high-performers, and older low-performers. In addition, we conducted a functional connectivity analysis by using a seed region approach. In comparison to younger individuals, older individuals showed lower right-hemispheric dorsolateral prefrontal activation and lower functional connectivity between the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and the bilateral orbitofrontal cortex. Older high-performers showed higher right dorsolateral and anterior prefrontal cortex activation than older low-performers, as well as higher functional connectivity between these brain regions. The present results suggest age-related reductions of prefrontal activation during spatial working memory retrieval. Moreover, task-related functional connectivity appears to be lower in older adults. Performance accuracy in older adults is associated with right dorsolateral and anterior prefrontal cortex activation, and with the functional connection between these regions.
Keywords: Aging; Working memory; Retrieval; Dorsolateral prefrontal cortex; Functional connectivity; Cognitive control

Wencai Wang, Lifang Sheng, Xu Dong, Wenjun Qu, Jilin Sun, Hongchun Jin, Timothy Logan, Dust aerosol impact on the retrieval of cloud top height from satellite observations of CALIPSO, CloudSat and MODIS, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 188, February 2017, Pages 132-141, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2016.03.034.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407316300097)
Abstract: Abstract
Dust aerosol effect on the retrievals of dusty cloud top height (DCTH) are analyzed over Northwest China using cloud products from MODerate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) on Aqua, Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observations (CALIPSO), and CloudSat for the Spring season of March–May over the years 2007–2011. An excellent agreement is found between CloudSat and CALIPSO derived DCTHs for all cloud types, suggesting that the effect of dust aerosols plays a small role in DCTHs determination for lidar and radar measurements. However, the presence of dust aerosols greatly affects the retrievals of DCTHs for MODIS compared with pure clouds and the active sensors derived results. The differences of DCTHs retrieving from CloudSat and MODIS range from −2.30 to 6.8 km. Likewise, the differences of DCTHs retrieving from CALIPSO and MODIS range from −2.66 to 6.78 km. In addition, the results show that the differences in DCTHs for active and passive sensors are dependent on cloud type. On the whole, dust aerosols have the largest effect on cloud top heights (CTH) retrieved of nimbostratus (Ns), followed by altocumulus (Ac) and altostratus (As), the last is cirrus (Ci) over Northwest China. Our results also indicate that the accuracy of MODIS-derived retrievals reduces accompanied with a decrease of height.
Keywords: Dust; Cloud top height; Satellite

Jose Costa Pereira, Nuno Vasconcelos, Cross-modal domain adaptation for text-based regularization of image semantics in image retrieval systems, Computer Vision and Image Understanding, Volume 124, July 2014, Pages 123-135, ISSN 1077-3142, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cviu.2014.03.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S107731421400054X)
Abstract: Abstract
In query-by-semantic-example image retrieval, images are ranked by similarity of semantic descriptors. These descriptors are obtained by classifying each image with respect to a pre-defined vocabulary of semantic concepts. In this work, we consider the problem of improving the accuracy of semantic descriptors through cross-modal regularization, based on auxiliary text. A cross-modal regularizer, composed of three steps, is proposed. Training images and text are first mapped to a common semantic space. A regularization operator is then learned for each concept in the semantic vocabulary. This is an operator which maps the semantic descriptors of images labeled with that concept to the descriptors of the associated texts. A convex formulation of the learning problem is introduced, enabling the efficient computation of concept-specific regularization operators. The third step is the selection of the most suitable operator for the image to regularize. This is implemented through a quantization of the semantic space, where a regularization operator is associated with each quantization cell. Overall, the proposed regularizer is a non-linear mapping, implemented as a piecewise linear transformation of the semantic image descriptors to regularize. This transformation is a form of cross-modal domain adaptation. It is shown to achieve better performance than recent proposals in the domain adaptation literature, while requiring much simpler optimization.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Query-by-example; Domain adaptation; Semantic representation; Cross-modal regularization; Class-specific regularization

María de los Ángeles Fernández-Altuna, Alejandra Martínez del Prado, Diego Gutiérrez Rayón, Elizabeth Arriarán Rodríguez, Héctor Armando Toriz Castillo, Miguel Betancourt Cravioto, Alberto Lifshitz Guinzberg, Encontrar sin perderse: ¿se ha frustrado al buscar la información médica que necesita?, Investigación en Educación Médica, Volume 5, Issue 18, April–June 2016, Pages 75-87, ISSN 2007-5057, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.riem.2015.10.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2007505715000770)
Abstract: AbstractIntroduction
Access to information is no longer a problem as medical students search for information online. However, it is becoming harder to find relevant information due to the wide range of available electronic information resources (EIR). The Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM) School of Medicine academic community has valuable electronic information resources in its Digital Medical Library (DML), but daily experience suggests it is not used in its full potential.
Objectives
To identify the most relevant EIR in UNAM's libraries and their access routes, especially the DML, to apply information search strategies through an example for efficient retrieval of information, and to help educate the academic community of the School of Medicine on the usefulness of resources available in their DML.
Method
A general overview of the UNAM's EIR was written. Some proposals for information search strategies were reviewed and implemented using the available EIR of the DML. Results were analysed to determine which strategies were better, according to their usefulness and relevance.
Results
Through a successful search strategy, it was possible to obtain reduced (and therefore more manageable) units of specific material. Through the DML, between 85 and 100% of the material was obtained in full text. In some cases all the material was relevant to the topic (PubMed), and in others the majority was not (Scopus and Dynamed). The same search strategy in some of the resources of the DML threw up a large number of results. “Advanced searches” were used to refine the results. Not all filtered results were relevant to the research topic. Some resources of the DML handle material that was useful for some researchers. Some resources translated the keywords automatically from Spanish to English.
Conclusions
Knowing and using search strategies can lead to an effective retrieval of information to be performed, thereby avoided getting lost in the sea of information available, contributing to develop information skills and allowing better decisions to be made. The information in the DML is very valuable. Effective strategies for search and recovery are recommended, to be used by the community of the UNAM School of Medicine.
Palabras clave: Estrategias de búsqueda; Recuperación de información; Fuentes de información electrónicas, Información médica; Biblioteca Médica Digital Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México; Search strategies; Information retrieval; Electronic information resources; Medical information; Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México Medical Digital Library

Daniel Carlos Guimarães Pedronette, Jurandy Almeida, Ricardo da S. Torres, A scalable re-ranking method for content-based image retrieval, Information Sciences, Volume 265, 1 May 2014, Pages 91-104, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2013.12.030.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025513008864)
Abstract: Abstract
Content-based Image Retrieval (CBIR) systems consider only a pairwise analysis, i.e., they measure the similarity between pairs of images, ignoring the rich information encoded in the relations among several images. However, the user perception usually considers the query specification and responses in a given context. In this scenario, re-ranking methods have been proposed to exploit the contextual information and, hence, improve the effectiveness of CBIR systems. Besides the effectiveness, the usefulness of those systems in real-world applications also depends on the efficiency and scalability of the retrieval process, imposing a great challenge to the re-ranking approaches, once they usually require the computation of distances among all the images of a given collection. In this paper, we present a novel approach for the re-ranking problem. It relies on the similarity of top-k lists produced by efficient indexing structures, instead of using distance information from the entire collection. Extensive experiments were conducted on a large image collection, using several indexing structures. Results from a rigorous experimental protocol show that the proposed method can obtain significant effectiveness gains (up to 12.19% better) and, at the same time, improve considerably the efficiency (up to 73.11% faster). In addition, our technique scales up very well, which makes it suitable for large collections.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Re-ranking methods; Indexing structures

Dileep Kumar Gupta, Rajendra Prasad, Pradeep Kumar, Ajeet Kumar Vishwakarma, Soil moisture retrieval using ground based bistatic scatterometer data at X-band, Advances in Space Research, Volume 59, Issue 4, 15 February 2017, Pages 996-1007, ISSN 0273-1177, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asr.2016.11.032.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0273117716306755)
Abstract: Abstract
Several hydrological phenomenon and applications need high quality soil moisture information of the top Earth surface. The advent of technologies like bistatic scatterometer can retrieve soil moisture information with high accuracy and hence used in present study. The radar data is acquired by specially designed ground based bistatic scatterometer system in the specular direction of 20–70° incidence angles at steps of 5° for HH and VV polarizations. This study provides first time comprehensive evaluation of different machine learning algorithms for the retrieval of soil moisture using the X-band bistatic scatterometer measurements. The comparison of different artificial neural network (ANN) models such as back propagation artificial neural network (BPANN), radial basis function artificial neural network (RBFANN), generalized regression artificial neural network (GRANN) along with linear regression model (LRM) are used to estimate the soil moisture. The performance indices such as %Bias, Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) and Nash-Sutcliffe Efficiency (NSE) are used to evaluate the performances of the machine learning techniques. Among different models employed in this study, the BPANN is found to have marginally higher performance in case of HH polarization while RBFANN is found suitable with VV polarization followed by GRANN and LRM. The results obtained are of considerable scientific and practical value to the wider scientific community for the number of practical applications and research studies in which radar datasets are used.
Keywords: Soil moisture; Microwave remote sensing; BPANN; RBFANN; GRANN; Regression analysis

I. Balderas, C.J. Rodriguez-Ortiz, F. Bermudez-Rattoni, Retrieval and reconsolidation of object recognition memory are independent processes in the perirhinal cortex, Neuroscience, Volume 253, 3 December 2013, Pages 398-405, ISSN 0306-4522, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroscience.2013.09.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306452213007665)
Abstract: Abstract
Reconsolidation refers to the destabilization/re-stabilization process upon memory reactivation. However, the parameters needed to induce reconsolidation remain unclear. Here we evaluated the capacity of memory retrieval to induce reconsolidation of object recognition memory in rats. To assess whether retrieval is indispensable to trigger reconsolidation, we injected muscimol in the perirhinal cortex to block retrieval, and anisomycin (ani) to impede reconsolidation. We observed that ani impaired reconsolidation in the absence of retrieval. Therefore, stored memory underwent reconsolidation even though it was not recalled. These results indicate that retrieval and reconsolidation of object recognition memory are independent processes.
Key words: reconsolidation; updating; retrieval; object recognition memory; perirhinal cortex; rats

Xiaolin Tian, Licheng Jiao, Xianlong Liu, Xiaohua Zhang, Feature integration of EODH and Color-SIFT: Application to image retrieval based on codebook, Signal Processing: Image Communication, Volume 29, Issue 4, April 2014, Pages 530-545, ISSN 0923-5965, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.image.2014.01.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923596514000320)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper proposes a new feature descriptor, edge orientation difference histogram (EODH) descriptor, which is a rotation-invariant and scale-invariant feature representation. The main orientation of each edge pixel is obtained through steerable filter and vector sum. Based on the main orientation, we construct the EODH descriptor for each edge pixel. Finally, we integrate the EODH and Color-SIFT descriptor, and build an effective image retrieval system based on weighted codeword distribution using the integrated feature descriptor. Experiments show that the codebook-based image retrieval method achieves the best performance on the given benchmark problems comparing to the state-of-the-art methods.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Edge orientation difference histogram (EODH) descriptor; Color-SIFT; Codebook; Weighted codeword distribution

Bo Li, Yijuan Lu, Afzal Godil, Tobias Schreck, Benjamin Bustos, Alfredo Ferreira, Takahiko Furuya, Manuel J. Fonseca, Henry Johan, Takahiro Matsuda, Ryutarou Ohbuchi, Pedro B. Pascoal, Jose M. Saavedra, A comparison of methods for sketch-based 3D shape retrieval, Computer Vision and Image Understanding, Volume 119, February 2014, Pages 57-80, ISSN 1077-3142, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cviu.2013.11.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1077314213002282)
Abstract: Abstract
Sketch-based 3D shape retrieval has become an important research topic in content-based 3D object retrieval. To foster this research area, two Shape Retrieval Contest (SHREC) tracks on this topic have been organized by us in 2012 and 2013 based on a small-scale and large-scale benchmarks, respectively. Six and five (nine in total) distinct sketch-based 3D shape retrieval methods have competed each other in these two contests, respectively. To measure and compare the performance of the top participating and other existing promising sketch-based 3D shape retrieval methods and solicit the state-of-the-art approaches, we perform a more comprehensive comparison of fifteen best (four top participating algorithms and eleven additional state-of-the-art methods) retrieval methods by completing the evaluation of each method on both benchmarks. The benchmarks, results, and evaluation tools for the two tracks are publicly available on our websites [1,2].
Keywords: Sketch-based 3D model retrieval; Evaluation; SHREC contest; Large-scale; Benchmark

Song Wu, Ard Oerlemans, Erwin M. Bakker, Michael S. Lew, Deep binary codes for large scale image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Available online 6 February 2017, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.12.070.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217301455)
Abstract: Abstract
Recent studies have shown that image representations built upon deep convolutional layers in Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have strong discriminative characteristics. In this paper, we present a novel and effective method to create compact binary codes (deep binary codes) based on deep convolutional features for image retrieval. Deep binary codes are generated by comparing the response from each feature map and the average response across all the feature maps on the deep convolutional layers. Additionally, a spatial cross-summing strategy is proposed to directly generate bit-scalable binary codes. As the deep binary codes on different deep layers can be obtained by passing the image through the CNN and each of them makes a different contribution to the search accuracy, we then present a dynamic, on-the-fly late fusion approach where the top N high quality search scores from deep binary codes are automatically determined online and fused to further enhance the retrieval precision. Two strengths of the proposed methods are that the generation of deep binary codes is based on a generic model, which does not require additional training for new image domains, and that the dynamic late fusion scheme is query adaptive. Extensive experimental results on well known benchmarks show that the performance of deep binary codes are competitive with state-of-the-art approaches for large scale image retrieval. Moreover, it is shown that the dynamic late fusion scheme significantly enhances the search accuracy.
Keywords: Convolutional neural network; Deep binary codes; Late fusion; Large scale image search

Afonso S. Bandeira, Jameson Cahill, Dustin G. Mixon, Aaron A. Nelson, Saving phase: Injectivity and stability for phase retrieval, Applied and Computational Harmonic Analysis, Volume 37, Issue 1, July 2014, Pages 106-125, ISSN 1063-5203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acha.2013.10.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1063520313000936)
Abstract: Abstract
Recent advances in convex optimization have led to new strides in the phase retrieval problem over finite-dimensional vector spaces. However, certain fundamental questions remain: What sorts of measurement vectors uniquely determine every signal up to a global phase factor, and how many are needed to do so? Furthermore, which measurement ensembles yield stability? This paper presents several results that address each of these questions. We begin by characterizing injectivity, and we identify that the complement property is indeed a necessary condition in the complex case. We then pose a conjecture that 4 M − 4 generic measurement vectors are both necessary and sufficient for injectivity in M dimensions, and we prove this conjecture in the special cases where M = 2 , 3 . Next, we shift our attention to stability, both in the worst and average cases. Here, we characterize worst-case stability in the real case by introducing a numerical version of the complement property. This new property bears some resemblance to the restricted isometry property of compressed sensing and can be used to derive a sharp lower Lipschitz bound on the intensity measurement mapping. Localized frames are shown to lack this property (suggesting instability), whereas Gaussian random measurements are shown to satisfy this property with high probability. We conclude by presenting results that use a stochastic noise model in both the real and complex cases, and we leverage Cramer–Rao lower bounds to identify stability with stronger versions of the injectivity characterizations.
Keywords: Phase retrieval; Quantum mechanics; Bilipschitz function; Cramer–Rao lower bound

Kevin Duh, Katrin Kirchhoff, Semi-supervised ranking for document retrieval, Computer Speech & Language, Volume 25, Issue 2, April 2011, Pages 261-281, ISSN 0885-2308, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csl.2010.05.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0885230810000392)
Abstract: Ranking functions are an important component of information retrieval systems. Recently there has been a surge of research in the field of “learning to rank”, which aims at using labeled training data and machine learning algorithms to construct reliable ranking functions. Machine learning methods such as neural networks, support vector machines, and least squares have been successfully applied to ranking problems, and some are already being deployed in commercial search engines.

Despite these successes, most algorithms to date construct ranking functions in a supervised learning setting, which assume that relevance labels are provided by human annotators prior to training the ranking function. Such methods may perform poorly when human relevance judgments are not available for a wide range of queries. In this paper, we examine whether additional unlabeled data, which is easy to obtain, can be used to improve supervised algorithms. In particular, we investigate the transductive setting, where the unlabeled data is equivalent to the test data.

We propose a simple yet flexible transductive meta-algorithm: the key idea is to adapt the training procedure to each test list after observing the documents that need to be ranked. We investigate two instantiations of this general framework: The Feature Generation approach is based on discovering more salient features from the unlabeled test data and training a ranker on this test-dependent feature-set. The importance weighting approach is based on ideas in the domain adaptation literature, and works by re-weighting the training data to match the statistics of each test list. We demonstrate that both approaches improve over supervised algorithms on the TREC and OHSUMED tasks from the LETOR dataset.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Ranking algorithms; Semi-supervised Learning

Pia Schönfeld, Karina Ackermann, Lars Schwabe, Remembering under stress: Different roles of autonomic arousal and glucocorticoids in memory retrieval, Psychoneuroendocrinology, Volume 39, January 2014, Pages 249-256, ISSN 0306-4530, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psyneuen.2013.09.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306453013003399)
Abstract: Abstract
It is commonly assumed that stress impairs memory retrieval. Glucocorticoids, released with a delay of several minutes in response to stressful experiences, are thought to play a key role in the stress-induced retrieval impairment. Accordingly, most studies on the impact of stress on retrieval tested memory a considerable time after stressor exposure, when glucocorticoid levels were elevated. Here, we asked how stress affects memory when retrieval takes place under stress, that is, when stress is part of the retrieval situation and glucocorticoids are not yet increased at the time of testing. To contrast stress effects on ongoing and delayed memory retrieval, 72 participants learned first neutral and emotional material. Twenty-four hours later, half of the learned material was tested either in a stressful, oral examination-like testing situation or in a standard, non-stressful free recall test. Memory for the other half of the learned material was assessed 25 min after the first, stressful or non-stressful retention test. Significant increases in blood pressure and salivary cortisol confirmed the stress induction by the first, examination-like testing situation. Retrieval performance under stress was positively correlated with the blood pressure response to the stressor but unaffected by cortisol. Conversely, retrieval performance 25 min post stress was negatively correlated with the cortisol response to the stressor, particularly for emotional items. These results suggest that the same stressor may have opposite effects on ongoing and delayed memory retrieval, depending on the presence of autonomic arousal and glucocorticoids.
Keywords: Stress; Cortisol; Noradrenaline; Autonomic arousal; Memory; Memory retrieval

Chenfei Xu, Qihe Liu, Mao Ye, Age invariant face recognition and retrieval by coupled auto-encoder networks, Neurocomputing, Volume 222, 26 January 2017, Pages 62-71, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2016.10.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231216311729)
Abstract: Abstract
Recently many promising results have been shown on face recognition related problems. However, age-invariant face recognition and retrieval remains a challenge. Inspired by the observation that age variation is a nonlinear but smooth transform and the ability of auto-encoder network to learn latent representations from inputs, in this paper, we propose a new neural network model called coupled auto-encoder networks (CAN) to handle age-invariant face recognition and retrieval problem. CAN is a couple of two auto-encoders which bridged by two shallow neural networks used to fit complex nonlinear aging and de-aging process. We further propose a nonlinear factor analysis method to nonlinearly decompose one given face image into three components which are identity feature, age feature and noise, where identity feature is age-invariant and can be used for face recognition and retrieval. Experiments on three public available face aging datasets: FGNET, CACD and CACD-VS show the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Keywords: Face recognition; Age invariant; Auto-encoder

Yanzhi Chen, Xi Li, Anthony Dick, Rhys Hill, Ranking consistency for image matching and object retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Volume 47, Issue 3, March 2014, Pages 1349-1360, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2013.09.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S003132031300383X)
Abstract: Abstract
The goal of object retrieval is to rank a set of images by the similarity of their contents to those of a query image. However, it is difficult to measure image content similarity due to visual changes caused by varying viewpoint and environment. In this paper, we propose a simple, efficient method to more effectively measure content similarity from image measurements. Our method is based on the ranking information available from existing retrieval systems. We observe that images within the set which, when used as queries, yield similar ranking lists are likely to be relevant to each other and vice versa. In our method, ranking consistency is used as a verification method to efficiently refine an existing ranking list, in much the same fashion that spatial verification is employed. The efficiency of our method is achieved by a list-wise min-Hash scheme, which allows rapid calculation of an approximate similarity ranking. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed framework and its applications.
Keywords: Ranking consistency; Image matching; Object retrieval; List-wise min-Hash

Pengfei Hu, Wenju Liu, Wei Jiang, Zhanlei Yang, Latent topic model for audio retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Volume 47, Issue 3, March 2014, Pages 1138-1143, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2013.06.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320313002628)
Abstract: Abstract
Latent topic model such as Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) has been designed for text processing and has also demonstrated success in the task of audio related processing. The main idea behind LDA assumes that the words of each document arise from a mixture of topics, each of which is a multinomial distribution over the vocabulary. When applying the original LDA to process continuous data, the word-like unit need be first generated by vector quantization (VQ). This data discretization usually results in information loss. To overcome this shortage, this paper introduces a new topic model named Gaussian-LDA for audio retrieval. In the proposed model, we consider continuous emission probability, Gaussian instead of multinomial distribution. This new topic model skips the vector quantization and directly models each topic as a Gaussian distribution over audio features. It avoids discretization by this way and integrates the procedure of clustering. The experiments of audio retrieval demonstrate that Gaussian-LDA achieves better performance than other compared methods.
Keywords: Topic model; LDA; Gaussian distribution; Audio retrieval

Todd E. Simon, Patrick F. Walker, Leo J. Daab, Joseph M. White, Paul W. White, A quality improvement project to improve inferior vena cava filter retrieval, Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders, Volume 5, Issue 1, January 2017, Pages 42-46, ISSN 2213-333X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvsv.2016.09.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213333X16301780)
Abstract: AbstractObjective
Poor retrieval rates for retrievable inferior vena cava filters (R-IVCFs) have been reported throughout the literature, with poor follow-up a common cause. In 2009, we reported a retrieval rate of 18% despite an initial follow-up rate of 85%. Use of a registry has been shown to improve retrieval rates. As a quality improvement project, in May 2012, the vascular surgery fellowship implemented a reiterative registry to track R-IVCFs placed at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center to improve retrieval rates. We report the results in 125 patients after 38 months.
Methods
Patients receiving an R-IVCF were entered into a registry. All patients were reviewed monthly using an electronic health record. When there was no longer an indication for the R-IVCF, the patient was scheduled for an outpatient appointment with a vascular surgeon followed by retrieval. Rates of retrieval, technical success, dwell time, indication, complications, and demographics were collected.
Results
There were 125 R-IVCFs placed between May 2012 and June 2015; 52 filters were placed for therapeutic and 73 for prophylactic indications. Our follow-up rate improved to 94%. A total of 79 filters were retrieved (63% absolute retrieval rate). Excluding patients who died before retrieval and patients with a permanent indication, 77% of filters were retrieved. The average dwell time was 101.5 days (7-460 days), and 63% of successful R-IVCF retrievals were within 3 months of placement. Technical success for retrieval was 92%. There were two major complications from retrievals (1.5% of retrievals).
Conclusions
The creation of an R-IVCF registry promoted ongoing follow-up with patients. In our earlier experience, retrieval rates were poor despite a high follow-up rate. The use of a reiterative registry improved our retrieval rate by 45% and increased our follow-up rate to 94%. These results emphasize the importance of repetitive follow-up for R-IVCFs. Despite a follow-up rate &gt;90%, around a third of R-IVCFs were not retrieved.

Shari Van Wittenberghe, Jochem Verrelst, Juan Pablo Rivera, Luis Alonso, José Moreno, Roeland Samson, Gaussian processes retrieval of leaf parameters from a multi-species reflectance, absorbance and fluorescence dataset, Journal of Photochemistry and Photobiology B: Biology, Volume 134, 5 May 2014, Pages 37-48, ISSN 1011-1344, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2014.03.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1011134414000840)
Abstract: Abstract
Biochemical and structural leaf properties such as chlorophyll content (Chl), nitrogen content (N), leaf water content (LWC), and specific leaf area (SLA) have the benefit to be estimated through nondestructive spectral measurements. Current practices, however, mainly focus on a limited amount of wavelength bands while more information could be extracted from other wavelengths in the full range (400–2500 nm) spectrum. In this research, leaf characteristics were estimated from a field-based multi-species dataset, covering a wide range in leaf structures and Chl concentrations. The dataset contains leaves with extremely high Chl concentrations (&gt;100 μg cm−2), which are seldom estimated. Parameter retrieval was conducted with the machine learning regression algorithm Gaussian Processes (GP), which is able to perform adaptive, nonlinear data fitting for complex datasets. Moreover, insight in relevant bands is provided during the development of a regression model. Consequently, the physical meaning of the model can be explored. Best estimates of SLA, LWC and Chl yielded a best obtained normalized root mean square error of 6.0%, 7.7%, 9.1%, respectively. Several distinct wavebands were chosen across the whole spectrum. A band in the red edge (710 nm) appeared to be most important for the estimation of Chl. Interestingly, spectral features related to biochemicals with a structural or carbon storage function (e.g. 1090, 1550, 1670, 1730 nm) were found important not only for estimation of SLA, but also for LWC, Chl or N estimation. Similar, Chl estimation was also helped by some wavebands related to water content (950, 1430 nm) due to correlation between the parameters. It is shown that leaf parameter retrieval by GP regression is successful, and able to cope with large structural differences between leaves.
Keywords: Machine learning algorithm; Spectral features; Hyperspectral; Parameter retrieval; Chlorophyll; Leaf structure; Specific leaf area; Leaf water content

Sooyoung Yoo, Jinwook Choi, On the query reformulation technique for effective MEDLINE document retrieval, Journal of Biomedical Informatics, Volume 43, Issue 5, October 2010, Pages 686-693, ISSN 1532-0464, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2010.04.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046410000523)
Abstract: Improving the retrieval accuracy of MEDLINE documents is still a challenging issue due to low retrieval precision. Focusing on a query expansion technique based on pseudo-relevance feedback (PRF), this paper addresses the problem by systematically examining the effects of expansion term selection and adjustment of the term weights of the expanded query using a set of MEDLINE test documents called OHSUMED. Implementing a baseline information retrieval system based on the Okapi BM25 retrieval model, we compared six well-known term ranking algorithms for useful expansion term selection and then compared traditional term reweighting algorithms with our new variant of the standard Rocchio’s feedback formula, which adopts a group-based weighting scheme. Our experimental results on the OHSUMED test collection showed a maximum improvement of 20.2% and 20.4% for mean average precision and recall measures over unexpanded queries when terms were expanded using a co-occurrence analysis-based term ranking algorithm in conjunction with our term reweighting algorithm (p-value &lt; 0.05). Our study shows the behaviors of different query reformulation techniques that can be utilized for more effective MEDLINE document retrieval.
Keywords: MEDLINE; Query reformulation; Information retrieval; Comprehensive evaluation

Junliang He, Yong Zha, Jiahua Zhang, Jay Gao, Qiang Wang, Synergetic retrieval of terrestrial AOD from MODIS images of twin satellites Terra and Aqua, Advances in Space Research, Volume 53, Issue 9, 1 May 2014, Pages 1337-1346, ISSN 0273-1177, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asr.2014.02.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0273117714001343)
Abstract: Abstract
Aerosol optical depth (AOD) is one of the most important indicators of atmospheric pollution. It can be retrieved from satellite imagery using several established methods, such as the dark dense vegetation method and the deep blue algorithm. All of these methods require estimation of surface reflectance prior to retrieval, and are applicable to a certain pre-designated type of surface cover. Such limitations can be overcome by using a synergetic method of retrieval proposed in this study. This innovative method is based on the fact that the ratio K of surface reflectance at different angles/geometries is independent of wavelength as reported by Flowerdew and Haigh (1995). An atmospheric radiative transfer model was then established and resolved with the assistance of the ratio K obtained from two Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) spectral bands acquired from the twin satellites of Terra and Aqua whose overpass is separated by three hours. This synergetic method of retrieval was tested with 20 pairs of MODIS images. The retrieved AOD was validated against the ground observed AOD at the Taihu station of the AErosol RObotic NETwork (AERONET). It is found that they are correlated with the observations at a coefficient of 0.828 at 0.47 μm and 0.921 at 0.66 μm wavelengths. The retrieved AOD has a mean relative error of 25.47% at 0.47 μm and 24.3% at 0.66 μm. Of the 20 samples, 15 and 17 fall within two standard error of the line based observed AOD data on the ground at the 0.47 μm and 0.66 μm, respectively. These results indicate that this synergetic method can be used to reliably retrieve AOD from the twin satellites MODIS images, namely Terra and Aqua. It is not necessary to determine surface reflectance first.
Keywords: AOD; Synergetic retrieval; MODIS; AERONET; Taihu Lake

Volker Sprondel, Kerstin H. Kipp, Axel Mecklinger, Timing matters: Age-related changes in episodic retrieval control as revealed by event-related potentials, Brain Research, Volume 1537, 6 November 2013, Pages 143-155, ISSN 0006-8993, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2013.09.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006899313012407)
Abstract: Abstract
The retrieval of information from episodic memory involves the engagement of pre-retrieval control processes that facilitate the recovery of task-relevant information. The development of these processes was investigated here by comparing neural correlates of retrieval orientation between 13–14-year-old adolescents and young adults. In each age group, event-related potentials (ERPs) elicited by new test pictures were contrasted across two recognition memory tasks (specific vs. general retrieval tasks), which were designed to place greater demands on the recovery of perceptual information associated with each picture in the specific than in the general task. Memory accuracy was higher in the general than in the specific task but did not differ between age groups. In adults, new item ERPs at anterior sites were more positive going in the specific than in the general task from 400 to 1200 ms. In adolescents, the onset latency of this effect was delayed by 300 ms relative to adults, even though no age differences in response speed were obtained in either task. The magnitude of the ERP new item effect in adults correlated with response accuracy, consistent with the view that pre-retrieval processes facilitate the recovery of task-relevant information. For adolescents, this relationship was only obtained for a subset of participants with early onsetting ERP effects, supporting the claim that the influence of pre-retrieval processes depends upon their temporal onset. Together, the findings suggest age-related changes in the efficiency of using control processes to facilitate successful retrieval while highlighting the role of onset latency in mediating these changes.
Keywords: Retrieval orientation; Pre-retrieval processes; Memory development; Adolescence; Event-related potentials

Anastasia Tolstaya, Irina Suslina, Polina Tolstaya, Review of Information Databases Providing Data on Current Scientific and Technical Achievements, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 88, 2016, Pages 385-390, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.07.453.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050916317094)
Abstract: Abstract
This study deals with the information databases providing information on scientific and technical developments that can be used for patent researches. The paper provides the analysis of several patent databases, reveals their main features and assess the completeness of the information provided by various information retrieval resource. Recommendations on the choice of the search databases are given. The results of this research can be useful to carry out a patent research in order to increase the efficiency of commercialization process of the intellectual activity results in bringing the goods into the home and the international market.
Keywords: Patent database; patent research; patent search; information retrieval system

Chuen-Horng Lin, Chun-Chieh Chen, Hsin-Lun Lee, Jan-Ray Liao, Fast K-means algorithm based on a level histogram for image retrieval, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 41, Issue 7, 1 June 2014, Pages 3276-3283, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2013.11.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417413009299)
Abstract: Abstract
In image retrieval, the image feature is the main factor determining accuracy; the color feature is the most important feature and is most commonly used with a K-means algorithm. To create a fast K-means algorithm for this study, first a level histogram of statistics for the image database is made. The level histogram is used with the K-means algorithm for clustering data. A fast K-means algorithm not only shortens the length of time spent on training the image database cluster centers, but it also overcomes the cluster center re-training problem since large numbers of images are continuously added into the database. For the experiment, we use gray and color image database sets for performance comparisons and analyzes, respectively. The results show that the fast K-means algorithm is more effective, faster, and more convenient than the traditional K-means algorithm. Moreover, it overcomes the problem of spending excessive amounts of time on re-training caused by the continuous addition of images to the image database. Selection of initial cluster centers also affects the performance of cluster center training.
Keywords: K-means; Histogram; Image retrieval; Color feature

Rose A. Cooper, Kate C. Plaisted-Grant, Simon Baron-Cohen, Jon S. Simons, Eye movements reveal a dissociation between memory encoding and retrieval in adults with autism, Cognition, Volume 159, February 2017, Pages 127-138, ISSN 0010-0277, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cognition.2016.11.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010027716302852)
Abstract: Abstract
People with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) exhibit subtle deficits in recollection, which have been proposed to arise from encoding impairments, though a direct link has yet to be demonstrated. In the current study, we used eye-tracking to obtain trial-specific measures of encoding (eye movement patterns) during incidental (natural viewing) and intentional (strategic) encoding conditions in adults with ASD and typical controls. Using this approach, we tested the degree to which differences in encoding might contribute to recollection impairments, or whether group differences in memory primarily emerge at retrieval. Following encoding of scenes, participants were asked to distinguish between old and similar lure scenes and provide ‘remember’/‘familiar’ responses. Intentional encoding increased eye movements and subsequent recollection in both groups to a similar degree, but the ASD group were impaired overall at the memory task and used recollection less frequently. In controls, eye movements at encoding predicted subsequent correct responses and subsequent recollection on a trial-by-trial basis, as expected. In contrast, despite a similar pattern of eye movements during encoding in the two groups, eye movements did not predict trial-by-trial subsequent memory in ASD. Furthermore, recollection was associated with lower similarity between encoding- and retrieval-related eye movements in the ASD group compared to the control group. The eye-tracking results therefore provide novel evidence for a dissociation between encoding and recollection-based retrieval in ASD.
Keywords: Autism; Eye-tracking; Attention; Recollection; Encoding

Shweta Nayak, Melanie E. Ochalski, Bo Fu, Kathryn-Mary Wakim, Tian Jao Chu, Xinxin Dong, Anthony N. Wakim, Progesterone level at oocyte retrieval predicts in vitro fertilization success in a short-antagonist protocol: a prospective cohort study, Fertility and Sterility, Volume 101, Issue 3, March 2014, Pages 676-682.e1, ISSN 0015-0282, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fertnstert.2013.11.022.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0015028213032822)
Abstract: Objective
To evaluate the distribution of P levels on the day of oocyte retrieval as it relates to pregnancy outcome in an antagonist protocol, which may be at higher risk for elevated P levels.
Design
Prospective cohort study.
Setting
Academic IVF center.
Patient(s)
One hundred eighty-six women undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation with an antagonist protocol.
Intervention(s)
None.
Main Outcome Measure(s)
Implantation, pregnancy, and spontaneous abortion rates were collected.
Result(s)
Implantation rate (positive hCG 14 days after ET) and pregnancy rate were significantly higher when the P level was &lt;12 ng/mL on the day of oocyte retrieval. Miscarriage rates were higher when the P level was ≥12 ng/mL, although this did not reach statistical significance.
Conclusion(s)
Elevated P on the day of oocyte retrieval is associated with significantly lower implantation and ongoing pregnancy rates. This is the first study to date to both uncover the distribution of P on the day of oocyte retrieval in an antagonist cycle and determine the impact an elevation may have on pregnancy outcome.
Key Words: Progesterone level; oocyte retrieval; antagonist cycle

Louai Al-Awami, Hossam S. Hassanein, Robust decentralized data storage and retrieval for wireless networks, Computer Networks, Available online 17 February 2017, ISSN 1389-1286, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2017.02.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128617300427)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper we study the problem of distributed data storage using Rateless codes for large-scale resource-constrained wireless networks. We focus on building a robust storage system using Fountain codes from physically decentralized sources. Fountain codes, e.g. LT-codes, can achieve reduced complexity of both encoding and decoding, which caters well to the nature of such networks. We propose an energy-efficient distributed dissemination and coding scheme to build a decentralized LT-codes based storage over a network of resource-limited nodes to provide data survivability against possible failures. In the proposed scheme, each sensor node is assigned a selection probability derived from a Robust Soliton Distribution (RSD) in a distributed fashion. Source nodes then disseminate their data over the storage network randomly, in accordance with the selection probabilities. The proposed scheme is compared to similar schemes in the literature by means of simulations. We evaluate the energy required for building the storage as well as the energy needed for data retrieval from the storage system. Results show that energy consumption can be substantially reduced while achieving the required storage requirements.
Keywords: Wireless sensor networks; Decentralized storage; Data survivability; Energy efficiency; Fountain codes

Stefania Montani, Giorgio Leonardi, Retrieval and clustering for supporting business process adjustment and analysis, Information Systems, Volume 40, March 2014, Pages 128-141, ISSN 0306-4379, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2012.11.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437912001482)
Abstract: In this paper, we describe a framework able to support run-time adjustment and a posteriori analysis of business processes, which exploits the retrieval step of the Case-based Reasoning (CBR) methodology. In particular, our framework allows to retrieve traces of process execution similar to the current one. Moreover, it supports an automatic organization of the trace database content through the application of hierarchical clustering techniques. Results can provide help both to end users, in the process execution phase, and to process engineers, in (formal) process conformance evaluation and long term process schema redesign.

Retrieval and clustering rely on a distance definition able to take into account temporal information in traces. This metric has outperformed simpler distance definitions in our experiments, which were conducted in a real-world application domain.
Keywords: Business process adjustment and analysis; Case-based retrieval; Hierarchical clustering; Temporal constraints

Subrahmanyam Murala, Q.M. Jonathan Wu, MRI and CT image indexing and retrieval using local mesh peak valley edge patterns, Signal Processing: Image Communication, Volume 29, Issue 3, March 2014, Pages 400-409, ISSN 0923-5965, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.image.2013.12.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923596513001872)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, a new pattern based feature, local mesh peak valley edge pattern (LMePVEP) is proposed for biomedical image indexing and retrieval. The standard LBP extracts the gray scale relationship between the center pixel and its surrounding neighbors in an image. Whereas the proposed method extracts the gray scale relationship among the neighbors for a given center pixel in an image. The relations among the neighbors are peak/valley edges which are obtained by performing the first-order derivative. The performance of the proposed method (LMePVEP) is tested by conducting two experiments on two benchmark biomedical databases. Further, it is mentioned that the databases used for experiments are OASIS−MRI database which is the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) database and VIA/I–ELCAP-CT database which includes region of interest computer tomography (CT) images. The results after being investigated show a significant improvement in terms average retrieval precision (ARP) and average retrieval rate (ARR) as compared to LBP and LBP variant features.
Keywords: Medical imaging; Image retrieval; Patterns; Texture; Local binary patterns (LBP)

Lluis Pamies-Juarez, Marc Sanchez-Artigas, Pedro García-López, Rubén Mondéjar, Rahma Chaabouni, On the interplay between data redundancy and retrieval times in P2P storage systems, Computer Networks, Volume 59, 11 February 2014, Pages 1-16, ISSN 1389-1286, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bjp.2013.12.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128613004088)
Abstract: Abstract
Peer-to-peer (P2P) storage systems aggregate spare storage resources from end users to build a large collaborative online storage solution. In these systems, however, the high levels of user churn—peers failing or leaving temporarily or permanently—affect the quality of the storage service and might put data reliability on risk. Indeed, one of the main challenge of P2P storage systems has traditionally been how to guarantee that stored data can always be retrieved within some time frame. To meet this challenge, existing systems store objects with high amounts of data redundancy, rendering data availability values close to 100%, which in turn ensure optimal retrieval times (only constrained by network limits). Unfortunately, this redundancy reduces the overall net capacity of the system and increases data maintenance costs. To alleviate these problems data redundancy can be reduced at the expense of lengthening retrieval times. The problem is that both the rewards and disadvantages of doing so are not well understood. In this paper we present a novel analytical framework that allows us to model retrieval times in P2P storage systems and describe the interplay between data redundancy and retrieval times for different churn patterns. Using availability traces from real P2P applications, we show that our framework provides accurate estimation of retrieval times in realistic environments.
Keywords: P2P storage; Retrieval times; Storage codes; Distributed systems

M. Tanguy, A. Baille, M.M. González-Real, C. Lloyd, B. Cappelaere, L. Kergoat, J.-M. Cohard, A new parameterisation scheme of ground heat flux for land surface flux retrieval from remote sensing information, Journal of Hydrology, Volumes 454–455, 6 August 2012, Pages 113-122, ISSN 0022-1694, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2012.06.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022169412004738)
Abstract: Summary
The objective of the study was to assess the performance of a new parameterisation scheme of ground heat flux (G) for retrieving surface fluxes from remote sensing data (MODIS-Terra). Formulae that are based on empirical relationships relating G to net radiation, Rn (G = αRn, α being a function of a vegetation index, VI) are currently used, but presented drawbacks, especially in bare or sparse vegetation areas because of the poor adequacy of VI-based relationships to account for changes in soil moisture. In this study, we proposed to link α to the evaporative fraction, EF. In a first step, using a non-dimensional form of the surface energy balance, we demonstrated that α is functionally related to EF and to the ratio γ = G/H (H = sensible heat flux). In a second step, we proposed an EF-based parameterisation of α, using ground fluxes data sets collected throughout the years 2005, 2006 and 2007 at four flux-tower sites in West African countries (Mali, Benin, Niger) that differ in surface conditions and Monsoon influence. The analysis indicated that the average site-specific values of α and EF were well described by a linear relationship of the type α = a EF + b, with a = −0.22 and b = 0.23. In a third stage, we investigated whether ET-retrieval from remote sensing information (MODIS-Terra) using the new parameterisation of α perform better than the classical formulation through VI-based relationships. We found that the retrieved values of H using the new parameterisation supplied the best agreement with the observed ground data and significant improvement with respect to estimates from α–VI relationships. Advantages and limitations of the proposed parameterisation scheme were discussed.
Keywords: Remote sensing; Ground heat flux; Sensible heat flux; Evaporative fraction; Vegetation index

Eithon Cadag, Peter Tarczy-Hornoch, Supporting retrieval of diverse biomedical data using evidence-aware queries, Journal of Biomedical Informatics, Volume 43, Issue 6, December 2010, Pages 873-882, ISSN 1532-0464, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2010.07.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046410001048)
Abstract: Though there have been many advances in providing access to linked and integrated biomedical data across repositories, developing methods which allow users to specify ambiguous and exploratory queries over disparate sources remains a challenge to extracting well-curated or diversely-supported biological information. In the following work, we discuss the concepts of data coverage and evidence in the context of integrated sources. We address diverse information retrieval via a simple framework for representing coverage and evidence that operates in parallel with an arbitrary schema, and a language upon which queries on the schema and framework may be executed. We show that this approach is capable of answering questions that require ranged levels of evidence or triangulation, and demonstrate that appropriately-formed queries can significantly improve the level of precision when retrieving well-supported biomedical data.
Keywords: Data integration; Database management; Information storage and retrieval; Bioinformatics; Ontology; Query language; Data diversity and provenance

Isaí Michel Lombera, Louise E. Moser, P. Michael Melliar-Smith, Yung-Ting Chuang, Peer-to-peer publication, search and retrieval using the Android mobile platform, Computer Networks, Volume 65, 2 June 2014, Pages 56-72, ISSN 1389-1286, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2014.03.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389128614000954)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we present the iTrust over Wi-Fi Direct system, which is a peer-to-peer publication, search and retrieval system for mobile ad hoc networks. We describe the iTrust over Wi-Fi Direct architecture and components, as implemented on the Android platform for mobile devices, and show how user applications can easily interface with iTrust over Wi-Fi Direct. We also describe the iTrust over Wi-Fi Direct networking model, and the interactions with the Android and Linux stacks. In addition, we describe the peer management protocol for iTrust over Wi-Fi Direct on the Android platform, which enables peers to construct a mobile ad hoc network by automatically discovering and connecting peers. We discuss deficiencies of the Android platform for Wi-Fi Direct, and present our solution to address those limitations. Finally, we present a performance evaluation of iTrust over Wi-Fi Direct in terms of the match probabilities without and with message forwarding, the peer management overhead, and the resource transfer latency.
Keywords: Peer-to-peer network; Mobile ad hoc network; Wi-Fi Direct; Android mobile platform; Decentralized publication; Search and retrieval

Yurong Shi, Yufeng Zhang, Remote sensing retrieval of urban land surface temperature in hot-humid region, Urban Climate, Available online 12 January 2017, ISSN 2212-0955, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.uclim.2017.01.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212095517300019)
Abstract: Abstract
With the rapid urbanization and the global climate change, the urban climate problems become increasingly serious in the hot-humid region of China. This study established the satellite-based remote sensing retrieval methods for urban land surface temperature (LST) based on the mono-window algorithm and the estimation methods of ground emissivity and atmospheric transmittance. Through retrieving LST of Haizhu district in Guangzhou in a sunny summer day, it was found that the retrieval methods were able to distinguish the surface temperature variations for different underlying urban surfaces. By comparison with the field observations, it was found that the error of the retrieval methods was about 1.0 °C and the methods were applicable for LST retrieval in the cities in the hot-humid region. By applying the retrieval methods, it showed that the cooling effects of water and vegetation on surrounding urban lands were effective within distances of 250 m and 350 m, respectively. The water cooling effect correlated with its area and width positively, and the vegetation LST correlated with its canopy density negatively. The present study provides reliable techniques for observing and evaluating urban LST and useful guidance for planning and design of urban climate in the hot-humid region.
Keywords: Land surface temperature; Urban climate; Remote sensing; Mono-window algorithm; Field observation

Otávio A.B. Penatti, Fernanda B. Silva, Eduardo Valle, Valerie Gouet-Brunet, Ricardo da S. Torres, Visual word spatial arrangement for image retrieval and classification, Pattern Recognition, Volume 47, Issue 2, February 2014, Pages 705-720, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2013.08.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320313003336)
Abstract: Abstract
We present word spatial arrangement (WSA), an approach to represent the spatial arrangement of visual words under the bag-of-visual-words model. It lies in a simple idea which encodes the relative position of visual words by splitting the image space into quadrants using each detected point as origin. WSA generates compact feature vectors and is flexible for being used for image retrieval and classification, for working with hard or soft assignment, requiring no pre/post processing for spatial verification. Experiments in the retrieval scenario show the superiority of WSA in relation to Spatial Pyramids. Experiments in the classification scenario show a reasonable compromise between those methods, with Spatial Pyramids generating larger feature vectors, while WSA provides adequate performance with much more compact features. As WSA encodes only the spatial information of visual words and not their frequency of occurrence, the results indicate the importance of such information for visual categorization.
Keywords: Visual words; Spatial arrangement; Image retrieval; Image classification

Chi-Han Chung, Shyi-Chyi Cheng, Chin-Chun Chang, Adaptive image segmentation for region-based object retrieval using generalized Hough transform, Pattern Recognition, Volume 43, Issue 10, October 2010, Pages 3219-3232, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2010.04.022.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320310001986)
Abstract: Finding an object inside a target image by querying multimedia data is desirable, but remains a challenge. The effectiveness of region-based representation for content-based image retrieval is extensively studied in the literature. One common weakness of region-based approaches is that perform detection using low level visual features within the region and the homogeneous image regions have little correspondence to the semantic objects. Thus, the retrieval results are often far from satisfactory. In addition, the performance is significantly affected by consistency in the segmented regions of the target object from the query and database images. Instead of solving these problems independently, this paper proposes region-based object retrieval using the generalized Hough transform (GHT) and adaptive image segmentation. The proposed approach has two phases. First, a learning phase identifies and stores stable parameters for segmenting each database image. In the retrieval phase, the adaptive image segmentation process is also performed to segment a query image into regions for retrieving visual objects inside database images through the GHT with a modified voting scheme to locate the target visual object under a certain affine transformation. The learned parameters make the segmentation results of query and database images more stable and consistent. Computer simulation results show that the proposed method gives good performance in terms of retrieval accuracy, robustness, and execution speed.
Keywords: Object recognition; Hough transform; Image segmentation; Information retrieval

Stuart Fitz-Gerald, Information Retrieval: Implementing and Evaluation Search Engines, S. Buettcher, C.L.A. Clarke, G.V. Cormack. MIT Press (2010), ISBN: 9780262026512, International Journal of Information Management, Volume 32, Issue 5, October 2012, Pages 496-497, ISSN 0268-4012, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2012.08.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0268401212000990)

Xin Xiao, Di Zhao, Qin Zhang, Chun-yan Guo, Retrieval of concrete words involves more contextual information than abstract words: Multiple components for the concreteness effect, Brain and Language, Volume 120, Issue 3, March 2012, Pages 251-258, ISSN 0093-934X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bandl.2011.09.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0093934X11001593)
Abstract: The current study used the directed forgetting paradigm in implicit and explicit memory to investigate the concreteness effect. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded to explore the neural basis of this phenomenon. The behavioral results showed a clear concreteness effect in both implicit and explicit memory tests; participants responded significantly faster to concrete words than to abstract words. The ERP results revealed a concreteness effect (N400) in both the encoding and retrieval phases. In addition, behavioral and ERP results showed an interaction between word concreteness and memory instruction (to-be-forgotten vs. to-be-remembered) in the late epoch of the explicit retrieval phase, revealing a significant concreteness effect only under the to-be-remembered instruction condition. This concreteness effect was realized as an increased P600-like component in response to concrete words relative to abstract words, likely reflecting retrieval of contextual details. The time course of the concreteness effect suggests advantages of concrete words over abstract words due to greater contextual information.
Keywords: Concreteness effects; Implicit memory; Explicit memory; Directed forgetting; Event-related potentials

Ranmalee Bandara, Jeffrey P. Walker, Christoph Rüdiger, Towards soil property retrieval from space: Proof of concept using in situ observations, Journal of Hydrology, Volume 512, 6 May 2014, Pages 27-38, ISSN 0022-1694, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2014.02.031.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022169414001395)
Abstract: Summary
Soil moisture is a key variable that controls the exchange of water and energy fluxes between the land surface and the atmosphere. However, the temporal evolution of soil moisture is neither easy to measure nor monitor at large scales because of its high spatial variability. This is mainly a result of the local variation in soil properties and vegetation cover. Thus, land surface models are normally used to predict the evolution of soil moisture and yet, despite their importance, these models are based on low-resolution soil property information or typical values. Therefore, the availability of more accurate and detailed soil parameter data than are currently available is vital, if regional or global soil moisture predictions are to be made with the accuracy required for environmental applications. The proposed solution is to estimate the soil hydraulic properties via model calibration to remotely sensed soil moisture observation, with in situ observations used as a proxy in this proof of concept study. Consequently, the feasibility is assessed, and the level of accuracy that can be expected determined, for soil hydraulic property estimation of duplex soil profiles in a semi-arid environment using near-surface soil moisture observations under naturally occurring conditions. The retrieved soil hydraulic parameters were then assessed by their reliability to predict the root zone soil moisture using the Joint UK Land Environment Simulator model. When using parameters that were retrieved using soil moisture observations, the root zone soil moisture was predicted to within an accuracy of 0.04 m3/m3, which is an improvement of ∼0.025 m3/m3 on predictions that used published values or pedo-transfer functions.
Keywords: Surface soil moisture; Soil hydraulic parameter retrieval; JULES; Land surface modeling

Wengang Zhou, Houqiang Li, Qi Tian, Chapter 12 - Multimedia Content-Based Visual Retrieval, In: Sergios Theodoridis and Rama Chellappa, Editor(s), Academic Press Library in Signal Processing, Elsevier, 2014, Volume 5, Pages 383-416, ISSN 2351-9819, ISBN 9780124201491, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-420149-1.00012-0.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780124201491000120)
Abstract: Abstract
With the ever explosive growth of multimedia visual data on the Web, content-based visual retrieval has been attracting sufficient attention in both the academia and the industry. Based on the pioneering work of invariant local SIFT feature and the classic Bag-of-Visual-Words model, the last decade has witnessed the fast advance in content-based visual retrieval in the computer vision and multimedia community. The notable characteristic that distinguishes multimedia content-based retrieval from other visual processing problems lies in emphasizing on the scalability to million- or billion-scale database and the query response in real time. Due to the well-known semantic gap problem, most content-based visual retrieval methods target at specific object/scene image retrieval or partial-duplicate Web image retrieval, and great success has been achieved.

This chapter investigates the general framework of the multimedia content-based visual retrieval. It overviews the general visual search pipeline and discusses five key modules of the pipeline separately in detail. A series of methods addressing the key issues in each module are introduced. In this chapter, we are focused on discussing the key problems, defining the algorithms, and illustrating the main idea with the goal of scalable retrieval in large-scale image database.
Keywords: Content-based retrieval; Feature representation; Feature matching; Quantization; Image index; Geometric verification; Hashing

Zhi-Ping Fan, Yong-Hai Li, Xiaohuan Wang, Yang Liu, Hybrid similarity measure for case retrieval in CBR and its application to emergency response towards gas explosion, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 41, Issue 5, April 2014, Pages 2526-2534, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2013.09.051.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417413008051)
Abstract: Abstract
Case retrieval is a primary step in case-based reasoning (CBR). It is important to measure the similarity between each historical case and the target case during the case retrieval process. In recent years, some methods for similarity measure with multiple formats of attribute values can be found in the practical CBR applications, but the in-depth study is still lacking. The objective of this paper is to develop a new method for hybrid similarity measure with five formats of attribute values: crisp symbols, crisp numbers, interval numbers, fuzzy linguistic variables and random variables. First, for each format of the attribute values, the calculation formula to measure the attribute similarity is presented. Then, the method for measuring hybrid similarity between each historical case and the target case is given by aggregating attribute similarities using the simple additive weighting method, and the proper historical case(s) can be retrieved according to the obtained hybrid similarities afterwards. Finally, a case study in the field of emergency response towards gas explosion is introduced to illustrate the use of the proposed method.
Keywords: Case-based reasoning (CBR); Case retrieval; Hybrid similarity; Attribute value; Gas explosion; Emergency response

Armin Kleinböhl, A. James Friedson, John T. Schofield, Two-dimensional radiative transfer for the retrieval of limb emission measurements in the martian atmosphere, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 187, January 2017, Pages 511-522, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2016.07.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407316302667)
Abstract: Abstract
The remote sounding of infrared emission from planetary atmospheres using limb-viewing geometry is a powerful technique for deriving vertical profiles of structure and composition on a global scale. Compared with nadir viewing, limb geometry provides enhanced vertical resolution and greater sensitivity to atmospheric constituents. However, standard limb profile retrieval techniques assume spherical symmetry and are vulnerable to biases produced by horizontal gradients in atmospheric parameters. We present a scheme for the correction of horizontal gradients in profile retrievals from limb observations of the martian atmosphere. It characterizes horizontal gradients in temperature, pressure, and aerosol extinction along the line-of-sight of a limb view through neighboring measurements, and represents these gradients by means of two-dimensional radiative transfer in the forward model of the retrieval. The scheme is applied to limb emission measurements from the Mars Climate Sounder instrument on Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter. Retrieval simulations using data from numerical models indicate that biases of up to 10 K in the winter polar region, obtained with standard retrievals using spherical symmetry, are reduced to about 2 K in most locations by the retrieval with two-dimensional radiative transfer. Retrievals from Mars atmospheric measurements suggest that the two-dimensional radiative transfer greatly reduces biases in temperature and aerosol opacity caused by observational geometry, predominantly in the polar winter regions.
Keywords: 2D; Radiative transfer; Limb geometry; Mars; MCS

Lin Li, Edina Csaszar, Edit Szodorai, Sudarshan Patil, Arnold Pollak, Gert Lubec, The differential hippocampal phosphoproteome of Apodemus sylvaticus paralleling spatial memory retrieval in the Barnes maze, Behavioural Brain Research, Volume 264, 1 May 2014, Pages 126-134, ISSN 0166-4328, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbr.2014.01.047.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166432814000618)
Abstract: Abstract
Protein phosphorylation is a well-known and well-documented mechanism in memory processes. Although a large series of protein kinases involved in memory processes have been reported, information on phosphoproteins is limited. It was therefore the aim of the study to determine a partial and differential phosphoproteome along with the corresponding network in hippocampus of a wild caught mouse strain with excellent performance in several paradigms of spatial memory. Apodemus sylvaticus mice were trained in the Barnes maze, a non-invasive test system for spatial memory and untrained mice served as controls.

Animals were sacrificed 6 h following memory retrieval, hippocampi were taken, proteins extracted and in-solution digestion was carried out with subsequent iTRAQ double labelling. Phosphopeptides were enriched by a TiO2-based method and semi-quantified using two fragmentation principles on the LTQ-orbitrap Velos. In hippocampi of trained animals phosphopeptide levels representing signalling, neuronal, synaptosomal, cytoskeletal and metabolism proteins were at least twofold reduced or increased. Furthermore, a network revealing a link to pathways of ubiquitination, the androgen receptor, small GTPase Rab5 and MAPK signaling as well as synucleins was constructed. This work is relevant for interpretation of previous work and the design of future studies on protein phosphorylation in spatial memory.
Keywords: Apodemus sylvaticus; Barnes maze; Phosphoproteome; Mass spectrometry; Memory; Retrieval

Jean-Paul van Oosten, Lambert Schomaker, Separability versus prototypicality in handwritten word-image retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Volume 47, Issue 3, March 2014, Pages 1031-1038, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2013.09.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320313003786)
Abstract: Abstract
Hit lists are at the core of retrieval systems. The top ranks are important, especially if user feedback is used to train the system. Analysis of hit lists revealed counter-intuitive instances in the top ranks for good classifiers. In this study, we propose that two functions need to be optimised: (a) in order to reduce a massive set of instances to a likely subset among ten thousand or more classes, separability is required. However, the results need to be intuitive after ranking, reflecting (b) the prototypicality of instances. By optimising these requirements sequentially, the number of distracting images is strongly reduced, followed by nearest-centroid based instance ranking that retains an intuitive (low-edit distance) ranking. We show that in handwritten word-image retrieval, precision improvements of up to 35 percentage points can be achieved, yielding up to 100% top hit precision and 99% top-7 precision in data sets with 84 000 instances, while maintaining high recall performances. The method is conveniently implemented in a massive scale, continuously trainable retrieval engine, Monk.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Handwriting recognition; Nearest centroid; Support-vector machines; Separability; Prototypicality; Historical manuscripts; Big data; Continuous machine learning

Nishant Shrivastava, Vipin Tyagi, Content based image retrieval based on relative locations of multiple regions of interest using selective regions matching, Information Sciences, Volume 259, 20 February 2014, Pages 212-224, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2013.08.043.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025513006105)
Abstract: Abstract
In this study, a novel technique for image retrieval based on selective regions matching using region codes is presented. All images in the database are uniformly divided into multiple regions and each region is assigned a 4-bit region code based upon its location relative to the central region. Dominant color and Local Binary Pattern (LBP) based texture features are extracted from these regions. Feature vectors together with their region codes are stored and indexed in the database. During retrieval, feature vectors of regions having region codes similar to the query image region are used for comparison. To reflect the user’s intent in query formulation in a better way, an effective technique for Region of Interest (ROI) overlapping block selection is also proposed. Region codes are further used to find relative locations of multiple ROIs in query and target images. The performance of the proposed approach is tested on the MPEG-7 CCD database and Corel image database. Experimental results show that the proposed approach increases the accuracy and reduces image retrieval time.
Keywords: Region of Interest (ROI); Region code; Content Based Image Retrieval (CBIR); Local Binary Pattern (LBP); Relative location

Mussarat Yasmin, Sajjad Mohsin, Muhammad Sharif, Intelligent Image Retrieval Techniques: A Survey, Journal of Applied Research and Technology, Volume 12, Issue 1, February 2014, Pages 87-103, ISSN 1665-6423, https://doi.org/10.1016/S1665-6423(14)71609-8.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1665642314716098)
Abstract: Abstract
In the current era of digital communication, the use of digital images has increased for expressing, sharing and interpreting information. While working with digital images, quite often it is necessary to search for a specific image for a particular situation based on the visual contents of the image. This task looks easy if you are dealing with tens of images but it gets more difficult when the number of images goes from tens to hundreds and thousands, and the same content-based searching task becomes extremely complex when the number of images is in the millions. To deal with the situation, some intelligent way of content-based searching is required to fulfill the searching request with right visual contents in a reasonable amount of time. There are some really smart techniques proposed by researchers for efficient and robust content-based image retrieval. In this research, the aim is to highlight the efforts of researchers who conducted some brilliant work and to provide a proof of concept for intelligent content-based image retrieval techniques.
Keywords: Image retrieval; intelligent image indexing; image data store; online image retrieval; search by visual contents

Ashnil Kumar, Jinman Kim, Lingfeng Wen, Michael Fulham, Dagan Feng, A graph-based approach for the retrieval of multi-modality medical images, Medical Image Analysis, Volume 18, Issue 2, February 2014, Pages 330-342, ISSN 1361-8415, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.media.2013.11.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1361841513001710)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we address the retrieval of multi-modality medical volumes, which consist of two different imaging modalities, acquired sequentially, from the same scanner. One such example, positron emission tomography and computed tomography (PET-CT), provides physicians with complementary functional and anatomical features as well as spatial relationships and has led to improved cancer diagnosis, localisation, and staging.

The challenge of multi-modality volume retrieval for cancer patients lies in representing the complementary geometric and topologic attributes between tumours and organs. These attributes and relationships, which are used for tumour staging and classification, can be formulated as a graph. It has been demonstrated that graph-based methods have high accuracy for retrieval by spatial similarity. However, naïvely representing all relationships on a complete graph obscures the structure of the tumour-anatomy relationships.

We propose a new graph structure derived from complete graphs that structurally constrains the edges connected to tumour vertices based upon the spatial proximity of tumours and organs. This enables retrieval on the basis of tumour localisation. We also present a similarity matching algorithm that accounts for different feature sets for graph elements from different imaging modalities. Our method emphasises the relationships between a tumour and related organs, while still modelling patient-specific anatomical variations. Constraining tumours to related anatomical structures improves the discrimination potential of graphs, making it easier to retrieve similar images based on tumour location.

We evaluated our retrieval methodology on a dataset of clinical PET-CT volumes. Our results showed that our method enabled the retrieval of multi-modality images using spatial features. Our graph-based retrieval algorithm achieved a higher precision than several other retrieval techniques: gray-level histograms as well as state-of-the-art methods such as visual words using the scale- invariant feature transform (SIFT) and relational matrices representing the spatial arrangements of objects.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Graph similarity; Multi-modality; PET-CT

Sherwin L. Su, Chelsea N. Koch, Thu M. Nguyen, Jayme C. Burket, Timothy M. Wright, Geoffrey H. Westrich, Retrieval Analysis of Neck-Stem Coupling in Modular Hip Prostheses, The Journal of Arthroplasty, Available online 14 February 2017, ISSN 0883-5403, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arth.2017.02.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0883540317301158)
Abstract: AbstractBackground
Dual-taper modular stems have suffered from high revision rates caused by adverse local tissue reactions secondary to fretting and corrosion. We compared the fretting and corrosion behavior of a group of modular neck designs to that of a design that had been recalled for risks associated with fretting and corrosion at the modular neck junction.
Methods
We previously analyzed fretting and corrosion on 60 retrieved Rejuvenate modular neck-stem implants. Here we compare those results to results from 26 retrieved implants from 7 other modular neck designs. For the 26 additional cases, histology slides of tissue collected at revision were reviewed and graded for aseptic lymphocyte-dominated vasculitis-associated lesion (ALVAL). Multivariate analyses were performed to assess differences in fretting and corrosion, adjusting for confounding factors (eg, length of implantation).
Results
The Rejuvenate design had higher damage and corrosion scores than the other 7 designs (P &lt; .01). Histologic samples from the recalled design were 20 times more likely to show ALVAL than samples from the other designs (P &lt; .01). Mixed metal couples had higher fretting (P &lt; .01) and corrosion (P = .02) scores than non-mixed metal couples.
Conclusion
Fretting and corrosion occurred on all modular neck-stem retrievals regardless of design. However, mixed metal couples suffered more corrosion than homogenous couples. This may be due to the lower modulus of the titanium alloy used for the stem, allowing for increased metal transfer and surface damage when loaded against a cobalt alloy modular neck, which in turn could account for the higher ALVAL and corrosion scores. Due to increased corrosion risk with mixed metals and increased neck fracture risk with non-mixed metal stem and necks, we suggest that clinicians avoid implantation of modular neck-stem systems.
Keywords: total hip arthroplasty; modular neck; fretting; corrosion; adverse local tissue reaction

Keyur D. Joshi, Sanket N. Bhavsar, Rajesh C. Sanghvi, Image Retrieval System Using Intuitive Descriptors, Procedia Technology, Volume 14, 2014, Pages 535-542, ISSN 2212-0173, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.protcy.2014.08.068.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212017314001042)
Abstract: Abstract
With the increase in the popularity of using huge image databases in various image retrieval applications, a need arises to develop an efficient, robust and automatic system which provides output in the form of similar images with respect to the input or query image. In this paper, three Image Retrieval Systems using very basic but novel descriptors, which can retrieve black and white (binary) image, grayscale image and color image from the binary, grayscale and color image databases, respectively, were implemented. It should be noted that the features used for the binary image and grayscale image may not be efficiently applicable to the color images. Obtained results indicate the same and it additionally shows that irrespective of numbers of images in database, developed Image Retrieval Systems retrieve images in very short period of time with high accuracy. Accuracy in color image retrieval is less compared to binary and grayscale image retrieval. So, it creates a need to design highly effective features for the color image retrieval.
Keywords: Content Based Image Retrieval; Object Recognition; color image; grayscale image

Sarvesh Kumar Singh, Pramod Kumar, Grégory Turbelin, Raj Rani, Uncertainty characterization in the retrieval of an atmospheric point release, Atmospheric Environment, Volume 152, March 2017, Pages 34-50, ISSN 1352-2310, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2016.12.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S135223101630975X)
Abstract: Abstract
The study proposes a methodology in a recent inversion technique, called as Renormalization, to characterize the uncertainties in the reconstruction of a point source. The estimates are derived for measuring the inversion error, the degree of model fit towards measurements (model determination coefficient) and the confidence intervals for the retrieved point source parameters (mainly, location and strength). The inversion error is reflected through an angular estimate which measures the deviation between the measured and predicted concentrations. The uncertainty estimation methodology is evaluated for point source reconstruction studies, using real measurements from two field experiments, known as Fusion Field Trials 2007 (FFT07) in flat terrain and Mock Urban Setting Test (MUST) in urban like terrain. In FFT07 and MUST experiments, the point source location is retrieved with an average Euclidean distance of 22 m and 15 m respectively. The source strength is retrieved, on average, within a factor of 1.5 in both the datasets. The inversion error is observed as 24 o and 21 o in FFT07 and MUST experiment, respectively. The 95% confidence interval estimates show that the uncertainty in the retrieved parameters is relatively large in approximately 50% FFT07 and 30% MUST trials in spite of their closeness towards true source parameters. For a comparative analysis, the interval estimates are also compared with a more general method of uncertainty estimation, Residual Bootstrap Sampling. In most of the trials, we observed that the intervals estimates with the present method are comparable (within 10–20% variations) to bootstrap estimates. The proposed methodology provides near accurate and computationally efficient uncertainty estimates in comparison to the methods based on Hessian and sampling procedures.
Keywords: Confidence bounds; FFT07 field experiment; MUST field experiment; Renormalization; Source reconstruction; Uncertainty

Stefan V. Pantazi, Unsupervised grammar induction and similarity retrieval in medical language processing using the Deterministic Dynamic Associative Memory (DDAM) model, Journal of Biomedical Informatics, Volume 43, Issue 5, October 2010, Pages 844-857, ISSN 1532-0464, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2010.07.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046410001024)
Abstract: This paper is an overview of unsupervised grammar induction and similarity retrieval, two fundamental information processing functions of importance to medical language processing applications and to the construction of intelligent medical information systems. Existing literature with a focus on text segmentation tasks is reviewed. The review includes a comparison of existing approaches and reveals the longstanding interest in these traditionally distinct topics despite the significant computational challenges that characterizes them.

Further, a unifying approach to unsupervised representation and processing of sequential data, the Deterministic Dynamic Associative Memory (DDAM) model, is introduced and described theoretically from both structural and functional perspectives. The theoretical descriptions of the model are complemented by a selection and discussion of interesting experimental results in the tasks of unsupervised grammar induction and similarity retrieval with applications to medical language processing. Notwithstanding the challenges associated with the evaluation of unsupervised information-processing models, it is concluded that the DDAM model demonstrates interesting properties that encourage further investigations in both theoretical and applied contexts.
Keywords: Associative memory; Natural language processing; Unsupervised grammar induction; Case-based reasoning; Information retrieval

Hai-Sheng Li, Qingxin Zhu, Ri-Gui zhou, Ming-Cui Li, lan Song, Hou Ian, Multidimensional color image storage, retrieval, and compression based on quantum amplitudes and phases, Information Sciences, Volume 273, 20 July 2014, Pages 212-232, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2014.03.035.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025514003193)
Abstract: Abstract
In this study, we propose a new representation method for multidimensional color images, called an n-qubit normal arbitrary superposition state (NASS), where n qubits represent the colors and coordinates of 2 n pixels (e.g., a three-dimensional color image of 1024 × 1024 × 1024 using only 30 qubits). Based on NASS, we present an ( n + 1 )-qubit normal arbitrary superposition state with relative phases (NASSRP) and an ( n + 2 )-qubit normal arbitrary superposition state with three components (NASSTC) for lossless and lossy quantum compression, respectively. We also design three general quantum circuits to generate NASS, NASSRP, and NASSTC states, where we retrieve an image from a quantum system using different projection measurement operators. Finally, we define the quantum compression ratio and analyze lossless and lossy quantum compression algorithms of multidimensional quantum images. For the first time, we implemented the compression of multidimensional color images on a quantum computer. Thus, we address the theoretical and practical aspects of image processing on a quantum computer.
Keywords: Image storage; Image retrieval; Image compression; Image processing; Quantum computing

Ralph Bergmann, Yolanda Gil, Similarity assessment and efficient retrieval of semantic workflows, Information Systems, Volume 40, March 2014, Pages 115-127, ISSN 0306-4379, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2012.07.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437912001020)
Abstract: In the recent years, the use of workflows has significantly expanded from its original domain of business processes towards new areas. The increasing demand for individual and more flexible workflows asks for new methods that support domain experts to create, monitor, and adapt workflows. The emergent field of process-oriented case-based reasoning addresses this problem by proposing methods for reasoning with workflows based on experience. New workflows can be constructed by reuse of already available similar workflows from a repository. Hence, methods for the similarity assessment of workflows and for the efficient retrieval of similar workflows from a repository are of core importance. To this end, we describe a new generic model for representing workflows as semantically labeled graphs, together with a related model for knowledge intensive similarity measures. Further, new algorithms for workflow similarity computation, based on A⁎ search are described. A new retrieval algorithm is introduced that goes beyond traditional sequential retrieval for graphs, interweaving similarity computation with case selection. We describe the application of this model and several experimental evaluations of the algorithms in the domain of scientific workflows and in the domain of business workflows, thereby showing its broad applicability.
Keywords: Business workflows; Scientific workflows; Workflow similarity; Retrieval; Case-based reasoning

Yogita Mistry, D.T. Ingole, M.D. Ingole, Content based image retrieval using hybrid features and various distance metric, Journal of Electrical Systems and Information Technology, Available online 5 January 2017, ISSN 2314-7172, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jesit.2016.12.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2314717216301155)
Abstract: Abstract
In last decade, large database of images have grown rapidly and will continue in future. Retrieval and querying of these image in efficient way is needed in order to access the visual content from large database. Content based image retrieval (CBIR) provides the solution for efficient retrieval of image from these huge image database. In this article a hybrid feature based efficient CBIR system is proposed using various distance measure. Spatial domain features including color auto-correlogram, color moments, HSV histogram features, and frequency domain features like moments using SWT, features using Gabor wavelet transform are used. Further, to enhance precision binarized statistical image features, color and edge directivity descriptor features are employed for developing efficient CBIR system. Various distance metrics are used for retrieval.

The experiments are performed using WANG database which consists of 1000 images from 10 different classes. Experimental result shows that the proposed approach performs better in terms of precision compared to other existing systems.
Keywords: CBIR; DTCWT; SWT moments; Minkowski distance; Mahalanobis distance

Alen Doko, Maja Štula, Ljiljana Šerić, Improved sentence retrieval using local context and sentence length, Information Processing & Management, Volume 49, Issue 6, November 2013, Pages 1301-1312, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2013.06.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457313000721)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper we propose improved variants of the sentence retrieval method TF–ISF (a TF–IDF or Term Frequency–Inverse Document Frequency variant for sentence retrieval). The improvement is achieved by using context consisting of neighboring sentences and at the same time promoting the retrieval of longer sentences. We thoroughly compare new modified TF–ISF methods to the TF–ISF baseline, to an earlier attempt to include context into TF–ISF named tfmix and to a language modeling based method that uses context and promoting retrieval of long sentences named 3MMPDS. Experimental results show that the TF–ISF method can be improved using local context. Results also show that the TF–ISF method can be improved by promoting the retrieval of longer sentences. Finally we show that the best results are achieved when combining both modifications. All new methods (TF–ISF variants) also show statistically significant better results than the other tested methods.
Keywords: Sentence retrieval; TF–ISF; Context; Sentence length

Pengjie Wang, Rynson W.H. Lau, Zhigeng Pan, Jiang Wang, Haiyu Song, An Eigen-based motion retrieval method for real-time animation, Computers & Graphics, Volume 38, February 2014, Pages 255-267, ISSN 0097-8493, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cag.2013.11.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0097849313001878)
Abstract: Abstract
Research on real-time 3D animation is attracting a lot of attention in recent years due to the popularity of emerging applications such as distributed virtual environments and computer games. One of the important issues in real-time animation is that the existing motion retrieval techniques generally have a high matching time because they are typically based on matching time-series, making them less suitable for use with large motion databases. In this paper, we propose a different approach to motion retrieval, called Eigen-based Motion Retrieval (or EigenMR), to address this limitation of the existing methods by performing motion retrieval in the transform domain instead of the time domain. To differentiate the motion of different body parts, we propose to perform the matching on individual body parts as well as on the whole body. Our approach has the important advantage that each body part can be represented by an index of fixed size, consisting of a number of eigenvectors and the corresponding eigenvalues. As a result, our approach has constant time complexity based on the number of motion files in the database instead of the size of the database. The experimental results show that our approach is both efficient and accurate compared with some of the latest methods. When applied to a motion database of 4 GB in size, our method requires approximately 20% of the standard time, making it more suitable for real-time animation.
Keywords: Eigenspace retrieval; Motion retrieval; Real-time animation; Real-time motion retrieval

H.A. García, D.I. Iriarte, J.A. Pomarico, D. Grosenick, R. Macdonald, Retrieval of the optical properties of a semiinfinite compartment in a layered scattering medium by single-distance, time-resolved diffuse reflectance measurements, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 189, March 2017, Pages 66-74, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2016.11.018.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407316306070)
Abstract: Abstract
Functional analysis of the human brain requires methods that take the layered structure of the head into account. In this work we introduce an improved theoretical model that describes light propagation in multilayered, turbid cylinders with a infinitely thick bottom layer, which simplifies calculations and reduces computation times. Our approach was validated with Monte Carlo simulations and single distance, time-resolved experiments on a three-layered phantom, where the absorption of the deepest layer was gradually modified. We were able to retrieve both, the scattering and absorption coefficient of this layer within reasonable errors. Hereby, changes in scattering were found to have less effect on the experimental data than absorption changes, making the reliable estimation of the reduced scattering coefficient more difficult in comparison to absorption. Stability of the implemented fitting routine was thoroughly analyzed, revealing that special care is needed to obtain accurate values for the reduced scattering coefficient.
Keywords: NIRS; Reflectance; Time-resolved; Brain; Layered media

Viktor P. Afanas'ev, Alexander S. Gryazev, Dmitry S. Efremenko, Pavel S. Kaplya, Differential inverse inelastic mean free path and differential surface excitation probability retrieval from electron energy loss spectra, Vacuum, Volume 136, February 2017, Pages 146-155, ISSN 0042-207X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.vacuum.2016.10.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0042207X16304390)
Abstract: Abstract
Quantitative interpretation of the electron spectroscopy data requires the information on differential inverse inelastic mean free paths (DIIMFP) and differential surface excitation probabilities (DSEP). In this paper, we test an algorithm of extracting DIIMFP and DSEP from reflected electron energy loss spectra (REELS) and photo-electron spectra (PES) in which the desired functions are parametrized on the base of a classical Lorentz oscillator. Unknown parameters are found by using the fitting procedure. To account for surface excitations, the investigated samples are considered as multi-layer systems. Simulations of REELS and PES are performed by making use of the partial intensity approach. The partial intensities for the reflection function and the photo-electron density flux are computed on the base of the invariant imbedding method. Extracted DIIMFPs and DSEPs are compared with those obtained by other authors. Finally, REELS and PES spectra for Be, Mg, Al, Si, Nb and W are computed using the retrieved DIIMFPs and DSEPs, and compared with the experimental spectra. All comparisons show good agreement.
Keywords: DIIMFP extraction; REELS deconvolution; PES; Invariant imbedding; XPS; Electron cross-section

Pauline Dibbets, Charlotte Moor, Marisol J. Voncken, The effect of a retrieval cue on the return of spider fear, Journal of Behavior Therapy and Experimental Psychiatry, Volume 44, Issue 4, December 2013, Pages 361-367, ISSN 0005-7916, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbtep.2013.03.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0005791613000311)
Abstract: AbstractBackground and objectives
Exposure therapy is often used as treatment for anxiety disorders. However, a change in context after exposure can result in fear renewal. This renewal can be attenuated by using retrieval cues stemming from the exposure context. The present study investigated the effect of such a cue in spider-fearful persons.
Methods
Thirty-three participants underwent an in vivo exposure session while wearing a bracelet (retrieval cue). After exposure, half of the participants continued to wear the bracelet at home until follow-up (cue groups); the other half handed over the bracelet after exposure (no cue groups). Half of the participants in each group received the follow-up in the exposure context (AAcue and AAnocue); for the other half follow-up was conducted in a novel environment (ABcue and ABnocue).
Results
A switch in context at follow-up resulted in more self-reported anxiety and arousal compared to no switch. However, the retrieval cue did not attenuate this renewed responding.
Limitations
The number of participant per condition was limited, which might have obscured possible retrieval cue effects due to a lack of power. Additionally, information about the retrieval cue was provided after exposure, which might have weakened the association between the cue and exposure therapy. Furthermore, no autonomic measures were incorporated, restricting the effect to self-report measures. For future studies we would recommend to explicitly link the retrieval cue before onset of the exposure session and to incorporate autonomic measures.
Conclusions
Our findings indicate that a switch in context resulted in more self-reported anxiety and arousal, but that a cue stemming from the exposure context did not attenuate this renewal.
Keywords: Spider fear; Exposure; Retrieval cue; Renewal; Context dependency

Yonina C. Eldar, Shahar Mendelson, Phase retrieval: Stability and recovery guarantees, Applied and Computational Harmonic Analysis, Volume 36, Issue 3, May 2014, Pages 473-494, ISSN 1063-5203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acha.2013.08.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1063520313000717)
Abstract: Abstract
We consider stability and uniqueness in real phase retrieval problems over general input sets, when the data consists of random and noisy quadratic measurements of an unknown input x 0 ∈ R n that lies in a general set T. We study conditions under which x 0 can be stably recovered from the measurements. In the noise-free setting we show that the number of measurements needed to ensure a unique and stable solution depends on the set T through its Gaussian mean-width, which can be computed explicitly for many sets of interest. In particular, for k-sparse inputs, O ( k log ( n / k ) ) measurements suffice, while if x 0 is an arbitrary vector in R n , O ( n ) measurements are sufficient.

In the noisy case, we show that if the empirical risk is bounded by a given, computable constant that depends only on statistical properties of the noise, the error with respect to the true input is bounded by the same Gaussian parameter (up to logarithmic factors). Therefore, the number of measurements required for stable recovery is the same as in the noise-free setting up to log factors.

It turns out that the complexity parameter for the quadratic problem is the same as the one used for analyzing stability in linear measurements under very general conditions. Thus, no substantial price has to be paid in terms of stability when there is no knowledge of the phase of the measurements.
Keywords: Phase retrieval; Compressed sensing

J. Matías Di Martino, Alicia Fernández, Gastón A. Ayubi, José A. Ferrari, Differential 3D shape retrieval, Optics and Lasers in Engineering, Volume 58, July 2014, Pages 114-118, ISSN 0143-8166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optlaseng.2014.02.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0143816614000530)
Abstract: Abstract
We are presenting a differential three-dimensional (3-D) shape profiling method that is based on the combination of orthogonal fringe projection. It allows us to compute depth gradient maps in a fast and efficient manner. What we are demonstrating is that depth gradients can be computed in a simple way by measuring fringe deformation throughout a novel single-shot approach. We show the usefulness and potential applications of the proposed approach. Validation experiments are presented as well.
Keywords: Depth retrieval; Fringe projection; 3D face recognition

Hong Zhang, Yun Liu, Zhigang Ma, Fusing inherent and external knowledge with nonlinear learning for cross-media retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 119, 7 November 2013, Pages 10-16, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2012.03.033.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231212009058)
Abstract: Cross-media retrieval focuses on searching multimedia data of different modalities with content-based methods. However, most of those methods are designed for multimedia retrieval in single modality, such as image retrieval and audio retrieval. Though a few work has focused on cross-media retrieval, the performance is yet to be satisfactory and the potential of using cross-media retrieval for boosted retrieval performance remains largely unexplored. Hence, in this paper, we propose a novel cross-media retrieval approach for general multimedia data, such as image and audio. First, image and audio samples are mapped into an isomorphic feature subspace with kernel-based method; second, multimedia semantics is learned from inherent feature correlation by local linear regression; also a graph model is constructed to utilize external knowledge from relevance feedback; then we build a unified objective function integrating inherent and external learning results, and by solving the objective function we calculate a multimodal semantic space where cross-media retrieval among image and audio is enabled. Extensive experiments have validated the proposed methods with encouraging results.
Keywords: Cross-media retrieval; Nonlinear learning; Relevance feedback

Yinglong Ma, Xiaolan Zhang, Ke Lu, A graph distance based metric for data oriented workflow retrieval with variable time constraints, Expert Systems with Applications, Volume 41, Issue 4, Part 1, March 2014, Pages 1377-1388, ISSN 0957-4174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2013.08.035.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417413006477)
Abstract: Abstract
There are many applications in business process management that require measuring the similarity between business processes, such as workflow retrieval and process mining, etc. However, most existing approaches and models cannot represent variable constraints and achieve data oriented workflow retrieval of considering different QoS requirements, and also fail to allow users to express arbitrary constraints based on graph structures of workflows. These problems will impede the customization and reuse of workflows, especially for data oriented workflows. In this paper, we will be towards workflow retrieval with variable time constraints. We propose a graph distance based approach for measuring the similarity between data oriented workflows with variable time constraints. First, a formal structure called Time Dependency Graph (TDG) is proposed and further used as representation model of workflows. Similarity comparison between two workflows can be reduced to computing the similarity between their TDGs. Second, we detect whether two TDGs of workflows for similarity comparison are compatible. A distance based measure is proposed for computing their similarity by their normalization matrices established based on their TDGs. We theoretically proof that the proposed measure satisfies the all the properties of distance. In addition, some exemplar processes are studied to illustrate the effectiveness of our approach of similarity comparison for workflows.
Keywords: Business process management; Data oriented workflow; Similarity computation; Process mining; Process retrieval

Wenbin Zhu, Aifeng Lű, Shaofeng Jia, Jiabao Yan, Rashid Mahmood, Retrievals of all-weather daytime air temperature from MODIS products, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 189, February 2017, Pages 152-163, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2016.11.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425716304503)
Abstract: Abstract
It is well known that remote sensing techniques hold the potential to explore the spatial estimation of air temperature (Ta) with fine spatial and temporal resolution across the world. However, because of the complex interaction of land-atmosphere system and the contamination of cloud cover, the retrieval of daytime Ta exclusively from remote sensing data is still far from straight forward, especially under cloudy sky conditions. In this paper, we presented a simple parameterization scheme of daytime Ta under all-weather conditions entirely based on Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) products. To evaluate its applicability, the scheme was demonstrated in two regions with totally different geomorphological and climatic conditions, the east part of the Qaidam Basin (EQB) in China and the Southern Great Plains (SGP) in the United States of America. The instantaneous Ta under clear sky conditions (Ta , clear) was determined as the average of near surface air temperature (TaS) retrieved from MOD07_L2 product and land surface temperature (Ts) retrieved from MOD06_L2 product. Then a regression model between Ta , clear and Ts was established, and the instantaneous Ta under cloudy sky conditions (Ta , cloudy) was estimated by applying the regression model to Ts retrieved under cloudy sky conditions. The results showed that the averaging parameterization scheme has significantly improved the accuracy of Ta , clear retrievals with MAE = 1.95 °C, RMSE = 2.50 °C, and B = 0.02 in the EQB, and MAE = 2.02 °C, RMSE = 2.56 °C, and B = 0.01 in the SGP. The Ta , cloudy estimates also showed good agreement with Ta observations in both regions with a correlation coefficient (r) higher than 0.91. The values of RMSE calculated for the EQB and SGP were 3.42 °C and 2.91 °C, respectively. The accuracy of both Ta , clear and Ta , cloudy estimates has reached a level comparable with other traditional statistical approaches that adopt ancillary Ta measurements as training dataset. Therefore, it is feasible to estimate daytime Ta under all-weather conditions entirely based on MODIS products.
Keywords: Air temperature; Land surface temperature; Atmospheric temperature profile; Adiabatic lapse rate; MODIS; Remote sensing

Gonzalo Navarro, Sharma V. Thankachan, New space/time tradeoffs for top-k document retrieval on sequences, Theoretical Computer Science, Volume 542, 3 July 2014, Pages 83-97, ISSN 0304-3975, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tcs.2014.05.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304397514003545)
Abstract: Abstract
We address the problem of indexing a collection D = { T 1 , T 2 , … , T D } of D string documents of total length n, so that we can efficiently answer top-k queries: retrieve k documents most relevant to a pattern P of length p given at query time. There exist linear-space data structures, that is, using O ( n ) words, that answer such queries in optimal O ( p + k ) time for an ample set of notions of relevance. However, using linear space is not sufficiently good for large text collections. In this paper we explore how far the space/time tradeoff for this problem can be pushed. We obtain three results: (1) When relevance is measured as term frequency (number of times P appears in a document T i ), an index occupying | CSA | + o ( n ) bits answers the query in time O ( t search ( p ) + k lg 2 k lg ε n ) , where CSA is a compressed suffix array indexing D , t search ( p ) is its time to find the suffix array interval of P, and ε &gt; 0 is any constant. (2) With the same measure of relevance, an index occupying | CSA | + n lg D + o ( n lg σ + n lg D ) bits answers the query in time O ( t search ( p ) + k lg ⁎ k ) , where lg ⁎ k is the iterated logarithm of k. (3) When the relevance depends only on the documents, an index occupying | CSA | + O ( n lg lg n ) bits answers the query in O ( t search ( p ) + k t SA ) time, where t SA is the time the CSA needs to retrieve a suffix array cell. On our way, we obtain some other results of independent interest.
Keywords: Document retrieval; Top-k queries; String databases; Compressed data structures

Xia-qing XIE, Quan-wei BAI, Lei HOU, Xu WU, Study and application of semantic-based image retrieval, The Journal of China Universities of Posts and Telecommunications, Volume 20, Supplement 2, December 2013, Pages 136-142, ISSN 1005-8885, https://doi.org/10.1016/S1005-8885(13)60209-5.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1005888513602095)
Abstract: Abstract
Image retrieval is increasingly necessary for multi-media resources to improve user experiences and expand retrieval approach. This paper studies into recent process made in semantic-based image retrieval (SBIR), and establishes a semantic-based image retrieval model (SBIRM) for ‘Classic Reading’ Platform. The model chooses three important features from illustrations of books including color, texture and shape to extract feature vector and form a 31-dimentional vector. Vector normalization is performed to eliminate the difference between different features and similarity measurement is used to compare two images. Finally, K-nearest neighbor (KNN) was performed to train the image vectors to decide which book the given image belongs to. The experimental result shows that the precision of this model can be more than 90%.
Keywords: Semantic-based image retrieval (SBIR); ‘Classic Reading’ platform; semantic gap

Simon Jones, Ling Shao, Kairan Du, Active learning for human action retrieval using query pool selection, Neurocomputing, Volume 124, 26 January 2014, Pages 89-96, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2013.07.031.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231213007844)
Abstract: Abstract
Content-Based Video Retrieval (CBVR) is gaining considerable research interest, inspired by the need to manage the large amounts of video media accumulating on the Internet. In this paper, we verify that the current state-of-the-art retrieval algorithms for CBVR can be improved with active learning. Active learning algorithms query a user for relevance feedback on specific items within the search database, using the additional labeled datapoints to improve the accuracy of the user's original query. We propose a simple CBVR system with SVM relevance feedback, and integrate it with active learning using a simple query pool selection algorithm, based on two co-testing learners. Our experiments demonstrate that such a system performs significantly better with active learning than without, surpassing the state-of-the-art.
Keywords: Content-Based Video Retrieval; Active learning; Human action recognition; Relevance feedback

D. Rafailidis, S. Manolopoulou, P. Daras, A unified framework for multimodal retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Volume 46, Issue 12, December 2013, Pages 3358-3370, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2013.05.023.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320313002471)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, a unified framework for multimodal content retrieval is presented. The proposed framework supports retrieval of rich media objects as unified sets of different modalities (image, audio, 3D, video and text) by efficiently combining all monomodal heterogeneous similarities to a global one according to an automatic weighting scheme. Then, a multimodal space is constructed to capture the semantic correlations among multiple modalities. In contrast to existing techniques, the proposed method is also able to handle external multimodal queries, by embedding them to the already constructed multimodal space, following a space mapping procedure of a submanifold analysis. In our experiments with five real multimodal datasets, we show the superiority of the proposed approach against competitive methods.
Keywords: Multimedia description; Multimodal search and retrieval; Incremental manifold learning

Christos Bouras, Vassilis Tsogkas, Noun retrieval effect on text summarization and delivery of personalized news articles to the user’s desktop, Data & Knowledge Engineering, Volume 69, Issue 7, July 2010, Pages 664-677, ISSN 0169-023X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.datak.2010.02.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169023X10000297)
Abstract: Text summarization and categorization, as well as personalization of the results, have always been some of the most demanding information retrieval tasks. Deploying a generalized, multi-functional mechanism that produces good results for the aforementioned tasks seems to be a panacea for most of the text-based, information retrieval needs. In this article, we present the keyword extraction techniques, exploring the effects that part of speech tagging has on the summarization procedure of an existing system. Moreover, we describe the profiling features that are used as an extension to an already constructed news indexing system, PeRSSonal. We are thus enhancing the personalization algorithm that the system utilizes with various features derived from the user’s profile, such as the list of viewed articles and the time spent on them. In addition, we analyze the system’s interconnection channels that are used with the client-side desktop application that was developed and we evaluate the approaches that we propose.
Keywords: Knowledge discovery; Web-based Information; Noun retrieval; Text summarization; News personalization

A.P. Almeida, D. Braz, L.P. Nogueira, M.V. Colaço, J. Soares, S.C. Cardoso, E.S. Garcia, P. Azambuja, M.S. Gonzalez, S. Mohammadi, G. Tromba, R.C. Barroso, Phase contrast X-ray microtomography of the Rhodnius prolixus head: Comparison of direct reconstruction and phase retrieval approach, Radiation Physics and Chemistry, Volume 95, February 2014, Pages 243-246, ISSN 0969-806X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.radphyschem.2013.02.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0969806X13000741)
Abstract: We have used phase-contrast X-ray microtomography (PPC-μCT) to study the head of the blood-feeding bug, Rhodnius prolixus, which is one of the most important insect vector of Trypanosoma cruzi, ethiologic agent of Chagas disease in Latin America. Images reconstructed from phase-retrieved projections processed by ANKA phase are compared to those obtained through direct tomographic reconstruction of the flat-field-corrected transmission radiographs. It should be noted that the relative locations of the important morphological internal structures are observable with a precision that is difficult to obtain without the phase retrieval approach.
Keywords: Phase retrieval; Phase contrast; Synchrotron radiation; Micro-computed tomography; Rhodnius prolixus; Trypanosoma cruzi

Jin Zhang, Qiang Wei, Guoqing Chen, An efficient incremental method for generating equivalence groups of search results in information retrieval and queries, Knowledge-Based Systems, Volume 32, August 2012, Pages 91-100, ISSN 0950-7051, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2011.08.013.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705111001924)
Abstract: Today’s widespread web applications bring many challenges to decision support systems (DSS) research for effectively retrieving useful information from online data sources that are of huge volume. Importantly, in a web search and service environment, search results grouping becomes a crucial issue of DSS functionality and service, where the scale of data is dynamically expanding. This paper proposes an intelligent method that generates equivalence groups (classes) in an incremental manner, so as to deal with the evolving nature of the data in web search. Such equivalence groups are derived from λ-cuts of transitive closure of a closeness matrix for the search elements. The proposed incremental method does not need to redo the whole procedure of grouping each time when the overall search outcome changes, which is common in real applications, rather, it only captures the changes and related elements so that the calculation is minimized in both time and space complexity. Theoretical analysis and data experiments show the advantage and effectiveness of the proposed incremental method.
Keywords: Intelligent search; Decision support; Incremental method; Transitive closure; Grouping

Nacéra Laiche, Slimane Larabi, Farouk Ladraa, Abdelnour Khadraoui, Curve normalization for shape retrieval, Signal Processing: Image Communication, Volume 29, Issue 4, April 2014, Pages 556-571, ISSN 0923-5965, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.image.2014.01.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923596514000319)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we propose a novel part-based approach for two dimensional (2-D) shape description and recognition. According to this method, first the polygonal approximation is employed to represent the outline shape by an ordered sequence of parts. Then using the Least squares model, each part is associated with a cubic polynomial curve. The obtained curves are normalized that are invariant to scaling, rotation and translation. Finally, based on shape similarity of resulting curves, a shape similarity between an input shape and its reference model is defined. A two-step matching algorithm is proposed. Experiments using several benchmark databases are performed and the obtained retrieval results demonstrate that the proposed approach is effective as compared to other matching techniques.
Keywords: Curvature points; Polygon approximation; Least squares model; Shape matching; Shape retrieval

Giuseppe Becchi, Marco Bertini, Alberto Del Bimbo, Andrea Ferracani, Daniele Pezzatini, A Distributed System for Multimedia Monitoring, Publishing and Retrieval, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 38, 2014, Pages 100-107, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2014.10.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050914013775)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper we present a distributed and interactive multi-user system which provides a flexible approach to collect, manage, annotate and publish collections of images, videos and textual documents. The system is based on a Service Oriented Architecture that allows to combine and orchestrate a large set of web services for automatic and manual annotation, retrieval, browsing, ingestion and authoring of different multimedia sources. These tools can been used to create several publicly available vertical applications, addressing different use cases. Positive results of usability test evaluations have shown that the system can be effectively used to create video retrieval systems.
Keywords: semantic multimedia annotation; SOA; multimedia retrieval

Rim Slama, Hazem Wannous, Mohamed Daoudi, 3D human motion analysis framework for shape similarity and retrieval, Image and Vision Computing, Volume 32, Issue 2, February 2014, Pages 131-154, ISSN 0262-8856, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.imavis.2013.12.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S026288561400002X)
Abstract: Abstract
3D shape similarity from video is a challenging problem lying at the heart of many primary research areas in computer graphics and computer vision applications. In this paper, we address within a new framework the problem of 3D shape representation and shape similarity in human video sequences. Our shape representation is formulated using extremal human curve (EHC) descriptor extracted from the body surface. It allows taking benefits from Riemannian geometry in the open curve shape space and therefore computing statistics on it. It also allows subject pose comparison regardless of geometrical transformations and elastic surface change. Shape similarity is performed by an efficient method which takes advantage of a compact EHC representation in open curve shape space and an elastic distance measure. Thanks to these main assets, several important exploitations of the human action analysis are performed: shape similarity computation, video sequence comparison, video segmentation, video clustering, summarization and motion retrieval.

Experiments on both synthetic and real 3D human video sequences show that our approach provides an accurate static and temporal shape similarity for pose retrieval in video, compared with the state-of-the-art approaches. Moreover, local 3D video retrieval is performed using motion segmentation and dynamic time warping (DTW) algorithm in the feature vector space. The obtained results are promising and show the potential of this approach.
Keywords: Motion analysis; Shape similarity; 3D video retrieval; 3D human action

Xiang-Yang Wang, Yong-Wei Li, Hong-Ying Yang, Jing-Wei Chen, An image retrieval scheme with relevance feedback using feature reconstruction and SVM reclassification, Neurocomputing, Volume 127, 15 March 2014, Pages 214-230, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2013.08.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231213008783)
Abstract: Abstract
In content-based image retrieval (CBIR), the gap between low-level visual features and high-level semantic meanings usually leads to poor performance, and relevance feedback (RF) is an effective method to bridge this gap and to scale up the performance in CBIR systems. In recent years, the support vector machine (SVM) based relevance feedbacks have been popular because they can outperform many other classifiers when the size of the training set is small, but they are often very complex and some unsatisfactory relevance of results occur frequently. To overcome the above limitations, we propose a SVM relevance feedback CBIR algorithm based on feature reconstruction, in which the covariance matrix based kernel empirical orthogonal complement component analysis is utilized. Firstly, the original input image space is projected nonlinearly onto a high-dimensional feature space by using nonlinear analysis approaches. Secondly, the covariance matrix of the positive feedback images are calculated, and the kernel empirical orthogonal complement components of the covariance matrix are also calculated. Thirdly, the new features of positive feedback images, negative feedback images, and all the remaining images are reconstructed by utilizing the kernel empirical orthogonal complement components of positive feedback images. Finally, a SVM classifier is constructed and all the images are resorted based on the new reconstructed image feature. Experiments on large databases show that the proposed algorithms are significantly more effective than the state-of-the-art approaches.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Relevance feedback; Support vector machine; Orthogonal complement component analysis; Feature reconstruction

Gonzalo Miguez, Lisa E. Mash, Cody W. Polack, Ralph R. Miller, Failure to observe renewal following retrieval-induced forgetting, Behavioural Processes, Volume 103, March 2014, Pages 43-51, ISSN 0376-6357, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.beproc.2013.11.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0376635713002428)
Abstract: Abstract
Recent studies have pursued the nature of inhibition observed in retrieval-induced forgetting (RIF) tasks. In a RIF paradigm, participants are trained on category–exemplar pairs in Phase 1. Then, some exemplars from select categories (Rp+ items) receive further practice in Phase 2. At test, impaired recall for non-practiced exemplars of the practiced categories (Rp− items) is observed relative to exemplars from non-practiced categories (Nrp items). This difference constitutes RIF. Prior reports of spontaneous recovery from RIF indicate that RIF represents a lapse rather than a loss of memory. Empirical analogs and theoretical considerations suggest that RIF should also be reversible through a change of context between Phase 2 and testing (i.e., renewal). We conducted two experiments using human participants to evaluate the context dependency of RIF. In both experiments, Phases 1 and 2 occurred in distinctly different contexts with subsequent testing occurring in either the Phase 1 context or the Phase 2 context. RIF was observed in both experiments. Experiment 1 additionally found that the magnitude of RIF was not reduced by testing in the Phase 1 context relative to testing in the Phase 2 context. Experiment 2 further tested context dependency of RIF by (1) increasing the dissimilarity between the two contexts and (2) inserting a retention interval between Phase 2 and test for half of the participants in each test context condition. The data again indicated no effect of the context manipulation. Thus, no renewal from RIF was observed in either experiment; moreover, these null findings were supported by Bayesian analyses. These results are compared with analogous inhibitory processes in the animal memory literature that typically show both physical and temporal context dependency.
Keywords: Renewal; Spontaneous recovery; Retrieval induced forgetting; Inhibition

Marcelle Fernandes, Jo Saunders, Does retrieval-induced forgetting affect future social behavior?, Acta Psychologica, Volume 144, Issue 1, September 2013, Pages 1-5, ISSN 0001-6918, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actpsy.2013.04.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0001691813000978)
Abstract: Abstract
The current paper presents an experiment examining the impact of retrieval-induced forgetting on a behavioral test. Participants first studied neutral and positive, or neutral and negative traits about a target and then practiced the neutral traits either via retrieval practice or re-presentation. Participants then were asked to take a seat outside the laboratory before recalling all the traits. Retrieval-induced forgetting was found in the retrieval practice but not the re-presentation condition for the valenced traits and also on the behavioral task with participants who suppressed positive traits choosing to sit further away from the target and participants who suppressed negative traits choosing to sit closer to the target. The findings indicate that retrieval-induced forgetting extends to behavioral tasks and affects the likely execution of a behavior. The findings are discussed in terms of the inhibitory theory of retrieval-induced forgetting.
Keywords: Retrieval-induced forgetting; Behavioral tests

Jie Wu, A spatial domain constraint iterative phase retrieval method for the propagation based X ray phase contrast imaging, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 124, Issue 24, December 2013, Pages 6523-6525, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2013.06.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402613007079)
Abstract: Abstract
Based on the propagation X ray phase contrast imaging theory, a spatial domain constraint iterative phase retrieval method is described in detail. This algorithm limits the object spatial domain according to the actual sample size firstly, and modify the image plane data with the actual test data, then the iteration can be terminated until iteration precision or the number of iterations meet the preset requirements. Finally the numerical simulation is made to evaluate the rapid phase retrieval algorithm performance, and a real column fiber material experiment is carried out using a micro focus X ray phase contrast imaging experiment platform, the phase distribution image of the column fiber is calculated out by this algorithm. The results show that this phase retrieval algorithm is effective, and the method has a potential stability and accuracy for X ray phase contrast imaging technology.
Keywords: Phase contrast imaging; X ray; Phase retrieval

Alexandra A. Chudnovsky, Petros Koutrakis, Itai Kloog, Steven Melly, Francesco Nordio, Alexei Lyapustin, Yujie Wang, Joel Schwartz, Fine particulate matter predictions using high resolution Aerosol Optical Depth (AOD) retrievals, Atmospheric Environment, Volume 89, June 2014, Pages 189-198, ISSN 1352-2310, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2014.02.019.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1352231014001150)
Abstract: Abstract
To date, spatial-temporal patterns of particulate matter (PM) within urban areas have primarily been examined using models. On the other hand, satellites extend spatial coverage but their spatial resolution is too coarse. In order to address this issue, here we report on spatial variability in PM levels derived from high 1 km resolution AOD product of Multi-Angle Implementation of Atmospheric Correction (MAIAC) algorithm developed for MODIS satellite. We apply day-specific calibrations of AOD data to predict PM2.5 concentrations within the New England area of the United States. To improve the accuracy of our model, land use and meteorological variables were incorporated. We used inverse probability weighting (IPW) to account for nonrandom missingness of AOD and nested regions within days to capture spatial variation. With this approach we can control for the inherent day-to-day variability in the AOD-PM2.5 relationship, which depends on time-varying parameters such as particle optical properties, vertical and diurnal concentration profiles and ground surface reflectance among others. Out-of-sample “ten-fold” cross-validation was used to quantify the accuracy of model predictions. Our results show that the model-predicted PM2.5 mass concentrations are highly correlated with the actual observations, with out-of-sample R2 of 0.89. Furthermore, our study shows that the model captures the pollution levels along highways and many urban locations thereby extending our ability to investigate the spatial patterns of urban air quality, such as examining exposures in areas with high traffic. Our results also show high accuracy within the cities of Boston and New Haven thereby indicating that MAIAC data can be used to examine intra-urban exposure contrasts in PM2.5 levels.
Keywords: Particulate matter; PM2.5; Aerosol Optical Depth (AOD); High resolution aerosol retrieval; MAIAC; Intra-urban pollution; Variability in PM2.5 levels; Scales of pollution

Julian Szymański, Włodzisław Duch, Information retrieval with semantic memory model, Cognitive Systems Research, Volume 14, Issue 1, April 2012, Pages 84-100, ISSN 1389-0417, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cogsys.2011.02.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1389041711000179)
Abstract: Psycholinguistic theories of semantic memory form the basis of understanding of natural language concepts. These theories are used here as an inspiration for implementing a computational model of semantic memory in the form of semantic network. Combining this network with a vector-based object-relation-feature value representation of concepts that includes also weights for confidence and support, allows for recognition of concepts by referring to their features, enabling a semantic search algorithm. This algorithm has been used for word games, in particular the 20-question game in which the program tries to guess a concept that a human player thinks about. The game facilitates lexical knowledge validation and acquisition through the interaction with humans via supervised dialog templates. The elementary linguistic competencies of the proposed model have been evaluated assessing how well it can represent the meaning of linguistic concepts. To study properties of information retrieval based on this type of semantic representation in contexts derived from on-going dialogs experiments in limited domains have been performed. Several similarity measures have been used to compare the completeness of knowledge retrieved automatically and corrected through active dialogs to a “golden standard”. Comparison of semantic search with human performance has been made in a series of 20-question games. On average results achieved by human players were better than those obtained by semantic search, but not by a wide margin.

Dympna M. O’Sullivan, Szymon A. Wilk, Wojtek J. Michalowski, Ken J. Farion, Automatic indexing and retrieval of encounter-specific evidence for point-of-care support, Journal of Biomedical Informatics, Volume 43, Issue 4, August 2010, Pages 623-631, ISSN 1532-0464, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2010.03.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1532046410000365)
Abstract: Evidence-based medicine relies on repositories of empirical research evidence that can be used to support clinical decision making for improved patient care. However, retrieving evidence from such repositories at local sites presents many challenges. This paper describes a methodological framework for automatically indexing and retrieving empirical research evidence in the form of the systematic reviews and associated studies from The Cochrane Library, where retrieved documents are specific to a patient–physician encounter and thus can be used to support evidence-based decision making at the point of care. Such an encounter is defined by three pertinent groups of concepts – diagnosis, treatment, and patient, and the framework relies on these three groups to steer indexing and retrieval of reviews and associated studies. An evaluation of the indexing and retrieval components of the proposed framework was performed using documents relevant for the pediatric asthma domain. Precision and recall values for automatic indexing of systematic reviews and associated studies were 0.93 and 0.87, and 0.81 and 0.56, respectively. Moreover, precision and recall for the retrieval of relevant systematic reviews and associated studies were 0.89 and 0.81, and 0.92 and 0.89, respectively. With minor modifications, the proposed methodological framework can be customized for other evidence repositories.
Keywords: Evidence-based medicine; Abstracting and indexing as topic; Automated indexing; Point-of-care systems; Decision making; Computer-assisted; Information storage and retrieval; Unified Medical Language System (UMLS); Metathesaurus

Meagan O'Neill, Rachel A. Diana, The neurocognitive basis of borrowed context information, Cortex, Available online 30 January 2017, ISSN 0010-9452, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cortex.2017.01.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010945217300205)
Abstract: Abstract
Falsely remembered items can be accompanied by episodic context retrieval. This finding is difficult to explain because there is no episode that binds the remembered item to the experimenter-controlled context features. The current study examines the neural correlates of false context retrieval when the context features can be traced to encoding episodes of semantically-similar items. Our neuroimaging results support a “dissociated source” mechanism for context borrowing in false memory. We found that parahippocampal cortex (PHc) activation, thought to indicate context retrieval, was greater during trials that involved context borrowing (an incorrect, but plausible source decision) than during baseline correct context retrieval. In contrast, hippocampal activation, thought to indicate retrieval of an episodic binding, was stronger during correct source retrieval than during context borrowing. Vivid context retrieval during false recollection experiences was also indicated by increased activation in visual perceptual regions for context borrowing as compared to other incorrect source judgments. The pattern of findings suggests that context borrowing can arise when unusually strong activation of a semantically-related item's contextual features drives relatively weak retrieval of the associated episodic binding with failure to confirm the item information within that binding. This dissociated source retrieval mechanism suggests that context-driven episodic retrieval does not necessarily lead to retrieval of specific item details. That is, source information can be retrieved in the absence of item memory.
Keywords: Source memory; Context retrieval; False memory; Recollection; Medial temporal lobe

Cheng Liu, Xiong Liu, Kelly Chance, The impact of using different ozone cross sections on ozone profile retrievals from OMI UV measurements, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 130, November 2013, Pages 365-372, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2013.06.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407313002501)
Abstract: Abstract
We compare three datasets of high-resolution O3 cross sections and evaluate the effects of using these cross sections on O3 profile retrievals from OMI UV (270–330 nm) measurements. These O3 cross sections include Brion–Daumont–Malicet (BDM), Bass–Paur (BP) and a new dataset measured by Serdyuchenko et al. (SGWCB), which is made from measurements at more temperatures and in a wider temperature range than BDM and BP, 193–293 K. Relative to the BDM dataset, the SGWCB data have systematic biases of −2 to +4% for 260–340 nm, and the BP data have smaller biases of 1–2% below 315 nm but larger spiky biases of up to ±6% at longer wavelengths. These datasets show distinctly different temperature dependences. Using different cross sections can significantly affect atmospheric retrievals. Using SGWCB data leads to retrieval failure for almost half of the OMI spatial pixels, producing large negative ozone values that cannot be handled by radiative transfer models and using BP data leads to large fitting residuals over 310–330 nm. Relative to the BDM retrievals, total ozone retrieved using original SGWCB data (with linear temperature interpolation/extrapolation) typically shows negative biases of 5–10 DU; retrieved tropospheric ozone column generally shows negative biases of 5–10 DU and 5–20 DU for parameterized and original SGWCB data, respectively. Compared to BDM retrievals, ozone profiles retrieved with BP/SGWCB data on average show large altitude-dependent oscillating differences of up to ±20–40% biases below ~20 km with almost opposite bias patterns. Validation with ozonesonde observations demonstrates that the BDM retrievals agree well with ozonesondes, to typically within 10%, while both BP and SGWCB retrievals consistently show large altitude-dependent biases of up to ±20–70% below 20 km. Therefore, we recommend using the BDM dataset for ozone profile retrievals from UV measurements. Its improved performance is likely due to its better characterization of temperature dependence in the Hartley and Huggins bands.
Keywords: Ozone cross section; Ozone profile retrieval; OMI; UV; Ozonesonde; Validation

Zhao Yamin, Zhang Mengmeng, Guo Xiaomin, Zhou Zhiwei, Zhang Jianhua, Research on Matching Method for Case Retrieval Process in CBR Based on FCM, Procedia Engineering, Volume 174, 2017, Pages 267-274, ISSN 1877-7058, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.proeng.2017.01.134.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877705817301340)
Abstract: Abstract
Era of knowledge economy, how to effectively mining, the use of knowledge is the enterprise growing concern. CBR system from the field of artificial intelligence is a self-learning system to manage tacit knowledge (case). Case retrieval link is the core link, the advantages and disadvantages of search methods directly affect the efficiency of case retrieval and case matching accuracy. Therefore, this paper proposes a new case matching process: when the size of the case database is small, it searches based on the case similarity algorithm; when the case database is large, it searches based on the FCM secondary retrieval model. And illustrates the fastness and efficiency of FCM in matching large-scale case database.
Keywords: CBR; case matching; similarity algorithm; FCM

Songqiao Tao, Zhengdong Huang, Lujie Ma, Shunsheng Guo, Shuting Wang, Youbai Xie, Partial retrieval of CAD models based on local surface region decomposition, Computer-Aided Design, Volume 45, Issue 11, November 2013, Pages 1239-1252, ISSN 0010-4485, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cad.2013.05.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010448513000857)
Abstract: Abstract
Most existing methods for 3D model retrieval focus on the global shape description and matching. However, partial shape description and retrieval may be used more frequently in the fields of product design and manufacture. In order to resolve the problem that the retrieval efficiency for complex model descriptors is low, a CAD model retrieval method based on local surface region decomposition is presented in this paper. First, according to the salient geometric features of the mechanical part, the surface boundary of a solid model is divided into local convex, concave and planar regions. Then, we give a kind of region codes that describe the surface regions and their links in the CAD model. Finally, the model retrievals are realized based on the similarity measurement between two models’ region codes. Experimental results have shown that this approach is able to support partial retrieval of CAD models.
Keywords: Surface region decomposition; Partial retrieval; Attributed relational graph

Rahat Iqbal, Nazaraf Shah, Information Retrieval, Decision Making Process and User Needs, Journal of Computer and System Sciences, Volume 78, Issue 4, July 2012, Pages 1158-1159, ISSN 0022-0000, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcss.2011.10.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022000011001115)

Joseph D. Mintz, S. William Stavropoulos, Scott O. Trerotola, Is a Venacavogram Necessary after Inferior Vena Cava Filter Retrieval?, Journal of Vascular and Interventional Radiology, Volume 27, Issue 12, December 2016, Pages 1857-1864, ISSN 1051-0443, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvir.2015.08.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1051044315007952)
Abstract: AbstractPurpose
To evaluate the utility of venacavography after optional inferior vena cava (IVC) filter retrieval using routine and complex techniques.
Materials and Methods
Patients (N = 224; 228 patient encounters) in whom venacavography was performed before and after IVC filter retrieval were reviewed from a 12-year period ending March 2014. Retrieval was considered complex if it required forceps or other adjuncts. Venacavograms were assessed for abnormalities including stenosis, filling defects, dissection, and extravasation of contrast material.
Results
Filling defects (n = 53; 23%) and stenosis (n = 137; 60%) were significantly more frequent after retrieval (P &lt; .05), but they did not change patient management. The only major abnormality after retrieval was extravasation (n = 3), which occurred only in the complex group and was treated with balloon tamponade and observation. No dissection was observed. Dwell time was not correlated with the presence of abnormalities after retrieval (r = 0.002, P = .977).
Conclusions
The lack of abnormalities requiring treatment on venacavography after routine IVC filter retrieval may justify omitting venacavography after retrieval regardless of dwell time. Although uncommon, extravasation requiring treatment may be seen after complex retrieval; venacavography remains warranted in this setting.

Deborah E. Hannula, Laura A. Libby, Andrew P. Yonelinas, Charan Ranganath, Medial temporal lobe contributions to cued retrieval of items and contexts, Neuropsychologia, Volume 51, Issue 12, October 2013, Pages 2322-2332, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.02.011.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393213000535)
Abstract: Several models have proposed that different regions of the medial temporal lobes contribute to different aspects of episodic memory. For instance, according to one view, the perirhinal cortex represents specific items, parahippocampal cortex represents information regarding the context in which these items were encountered, and the hippocampus represents item–context bindings. Here, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to test a specific prediction of this model—namely, that successful retrieval of items from context cues will elicit perirhinal recruitment and that successful retrieval of contexts from item cues will elicit parahippocampal cortex recruitment. Retrieval of the bound representation in either case was expected to elicit hippocampal engagement. To test these predictions, we had participants study several item–context pairs (i.e., pictures of objects and scenes, respectively), and then had them attempt to recall items from associated context cues and contexts from associated item cues during a scanned retrieval session. Results based on both univariate and multivariate analyses confirmed a role for hippocampus in content-general relational memory retrieval, and a role for parahippocampal cortex in successful retrieval of contexts from item cues. However, we also found that activity differences in perirhinal cortex were correlated with successful cued recall for both items and contexts. These findings provide partial support for the above predictions and are discussed with respect to several models of medial temporal lobe function.
Keywords: Episodic memory; Retrieval; Medial temporal lobe; Perirhinal cortex; Parahippocampal cortex; Hippocampus

Mouna Torjmen-Khemakhem, Karen Pinel-Sauvagnat, Mohand Boughanem, Investigating the document structure as a source of evidence for multimedia fragment retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 49, Issue 6, November 2013, Pages 1281-1300, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2013.06.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457313000538)
Abstract: Abstract
Multimedia objects can be retrieved using their context that can be for instance the text surrounding them in documents. This text may be either near or far from the searched objects. Our goal in this paper is to study the impact, in term of effectiveness, of text position relatively to searched objects. The multimedia objects we consider are described in structured documents such as XML ones. The document structure is therefore exploited to provide this text position in documents. Although structural information has been shown to be an effective source of evidence in textual information retrieval, only a few works investigated its interest in multimedia retrieval. More precisely, the task we are interested in this paper is to retrieve multimedia fragments (i.e. XML elements having at least one multimedia object). Our general approach is built on two steps: we first retrieve XML elements containing multimedia objects, and we then explore the surrounding information to retrieve relevant multimedia fragments. In both cases, we study the impact of the surrounding information using the documents structure.

Our work is carried out on images, but it can be extended to any other media, since the physical content of multimedia objects is not used. We conducted several experiments in the context of the Multimedia track of the INEX evaluation campaign. Results showed that structural evidences are of high interest to tune the importance of textual context for multimedia retrieval. Moreover, the proposed approach outperforms state of the art approaches.
Keywords: XML document; Multimedia fragment; Context-based image retrieval; Hierarchical structure

James F. Sumowski, Julia Coyne, Amanda Cohen, John DeLuca, Retrieval Practice Improves Memory in Survivors of Severe Traumatic Brain Injury, Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Volume 95, Issue 2, February 2014, Pages 397-400, ISSN 0003-9993, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apmr.2013.10.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0003999313011180)
Abstract: AbstractObjective
To investigate whether retrieval practice (RP) improves delayed recall after short and long delays in survivors of severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) relative to massed restudy (MR) and spaced restudy (SR).
Design
3(learning condition: MR, SR, RP)×2(delayed recall: 30min, 1wk) within-subject experiment.
Setting
Nonprofit medical rehabilitation research center.
Participants
Memory-impaired (&lt;5th percentile) survivors of severe TBI (N=10).
Intervention
During RP, patients are quizzed on to-be-learned information shortly after it is presented, such that patients practice retrieval. MR consists of repeated restudy (ie, cramming). SR consists of restudy trials separated in time (ie, distributed learning).
Main Outcome Measures
Forty-eight verbal paired associates (VPAs) were equally divided across 3 learning conditions (16 per condition). Delayed recall for one half of the VPAs was assessed after 30 minutes (8 per condition) and for the other half after 1 week (8 per condition).
Results
There was a large effect of learning condition after the short delay (P&lt;.001, η2=.72), with much better recall of VPAs studied through RP (46.3%) relative to MR (12.5%) and SR (15.0%). This large effect of learning condition remained after the long delay (P=.001, η2=.56), as patients recalled 11.3% of the VPAs studied through RP, but nothing through MR (0.0%) and only 1.3% through SR. That is, RP was essentially the only learning condition to result in successful recall after 1 week, with most patients recalling at least 1 VPA.
Conclusions
The robust effect of RP among TBI survivors with severe memory impairment engenders confidence that this strategy would work outside the laboratory to improve memory in real-life settings. Future randomized controlled trials of RP training are needed.
Keywords: Brain trauma; Memory; Rehabilitation; Traumatic brain injuries

Anne M. Cleary, Chapter Three - The Sense of Recognition during Retrieval Failure: Implications for the Nature of Memory Traces, In: Brian H. Ross, Editor(s), Psychology of Learning and Motivation, Academic Press, 2014, Volume 60, Pages 77-112, ISSN 0079-7421, ISBN 9780128000908, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-800090-8.00003-2.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128000908000032)
Abstract: Abstract
What produces a sense of recognition with a situation when no prior experience with it comes to mind? Research suggests that resemblance of a new situation to one or more in memory can lead to the sense of recognition when retrieval fails. The process responsible for this sense during retrieval failure is likely feature matching, whereby features in a current situation are matched to features stored in memory to produce a sense of familiarity. This supports the long-held idea that memory traces are basically sets of features or elements from earlier experiences. However, the work presented here goes beyond merely suggesting the existence of features within memory traces; the focus of the work presented here is on the following questions: What is a feature? What exactly are the features or elements of experiences that are somehow tied together within memory traces? This chapter describes how research on the sense of recognition during retrieval failure has been used to systematically identify features of experiences that can lead to recognition.
Keywords: Recognition without cued recall; Recognition without identification; Features; Feature matching; Familiarity-based recognition; Retrieval failure; Familiarity signal; Semantic features; Memory trace; Engram

Jing Yu, Zengchang Qin, Tao Wan, Xi Zhang, Feature integration analysis of bag-of-features model for image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 120, 23 November 2013, Pages 355-364, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2012.08.061.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231213003020)
Abstract: Abstract
One of the biggest challenges in content based image retrieval is to solve the problem of “semantic gaps” between low-level features and high-level semantic concepts. In this paper, we aim to investigate various combinations of mid-level features to build an effective image retrieval system based on the bag-of-features (BoF) model. Specifically, we study two ways of integrating the SIFT and LBP descriptors, HOG and LBP descriptors, respectively. Based on the qualitative and quantitative evaluations on two benchmark datasets, we show that the integrations of these features yield complementary and substantial improvement on image retrieval even with noisy background and ambiguous objects. Two integration models are proposed: the patch-based integration and image-based integration. By using a weighted K-means clustering algorithm, the image-based SIFT-LBP integration achieves the best performance on the given benchmark problems comparing to the existing algorithms.
Keywords: Bag-of-features (BoF); Image retrieval; Weighted K-means; SIFT-LBP; HOG-LBP; Histogram intersection

Erik A. Wing, Elizabeth J. Marsh, Roberto Cabeza, Neural correlates of retrieval-based memory enhancement: An fMRI study of the testing effect, Neuropsychologia, Volume 51, Issue 12, October 2013, Pages 2360-2370, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2013.04.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S002839321300119X)
Abstract: Abstract
Restudying material is a common method for learning new information, but not necessarily an effective one. Research on the testing effect shows that practice involving retrieval from memory can facilitate later memory in contrast to passive restudy. Despite extensive behavioral work, the brain processes that make retrieval an effective learning strategy remain unclear. In the present experiment, we explored how initially retrieving items affected memory a day later as compared to a condition involving traditional restudy. In contrast to restudy, initial testing that contributed to future memory success was associated with engagement of several regions including the anterior hippocampus, lateral temporal cortices, and medial prefrontal cortex (PFC). Additionally, testing enhanced hippocampal connectivity with ventrolateral PFC and midline regions. These findings indicate that the testing effect may be contingent on processes that are typically thought to support memory success at encoding (e.g. relational binding, selection and elaboration of semantically-related information) in addition to those more often associated with retrieval (e.g. memory search).
Keywords: Testing effect; Retrieval practice; Episodic memory; fMRI; Hippocampus; Medial PFC

Mark Iwen, Aditya Viswanathan, Yang Wang, Robust sparse phase retrieval made easy, Applied and Computational Harmonic Analysis, Volume 42, Issue 1, January 2017, Pages 135-142, ISSN 1063-5203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acha.2015.06.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1063520315000937)
Abstract: Abstract
In this short note we propose a simple two-stage sparse phase retrieval strategy that uses a near-optimal number of measurements, and is both computationally efficient and robust to measurement noise. In addition, the proposed strategy is fairly general, allowing for a large number of new measurement constructions and recovery algorithms to be designed with minimal effort.

Dmitry Efremenko, Adrian Doicu, Diego Loyola, Thomas Trautmann, Optical property dimensionality reduction techniques for accelerated radiative transfer performance: Application to remote sensing total ozone retrievals, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 133, January 2014, Pages 128-135, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2013.07.023.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022407313003166)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we introduce several dimensionality reduction techniques for optical parameters. We consider the principal component analysis, the local linear embedding methods (locality pursuit embedding, locality preserving projection, locally embedded analysis), and discrete orthogonal transforms (cosine, Legendre, wavelet). The principle component analysis has already been shown to be an effective and accurate method of enhancing radiative transfer performance for simulations in an absorbing and a scattering atmosphere. By linearizing the corresponding radiative transfer model, we analyze the applicability of the proposed methods to a practical problem of total ozone column retrieval from UV-backscatter measurements.
Keywords: Dimensionality reduction techniques; Accelerated radiative transfer; Trace gas retrievals

Baokun Hu, Yusheng Liu, Shuming Gao, Rui Sun, Chuhua Xian, Parallel relevance feedback for 3D model retrieval based on fast weighted-center particle swarm optimization, Pattern Recognition, Volume 43, Issue 8, August 2010, Pages 2950-2961, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2010.02.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320310000889)
Abstract: In this study, we present a parallel approach to relevance feedback based on similarity field modification that simultaneously considers all factors affecting the similarity field for 3D model retrieval. First, we present a novel unified mathematical model which formalizes the problem as an optimization problem with multiple objectives and constraints. Secondly, our approach optimizes all the parameters synchronously by treating all the modification operations of the similarity field equally. Thirdly, we improved the standard particle swarm optimization in two different ways. Finally, we present several experiments that show the advantages of our method over existing serial ones.
Keywords: Relevance feedback; Parallelism; 3D model retrieval; Particle swarm optimization; Information retrieval

Dongliang Zheng, Feipeng Da, Absolute phase retrieval for defocused fringe projection three-dimensional measurement, Optics Communications, Volume 312, 1 February 2014, Pages 302-311, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2013.09.056.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401813008778)
Abstract: Abstract
Defocused fringe projection three-dimensional technique based on pulse-width modulation (PWM) can generate high-quality sinusoidal fringe patterns. It only uses slightly defocused binary structured patterns which can eliminate the gamma problem (i.e. nonlinear response), and the phase error can be significantly reduced. However, when the projector is defocused, it is difficult to retrieve the absolute phase from the wrapped phase. A recently proposed phase coding method is efficient for absolute phase retrieval, but the gamma problem leads this method not so reliable. In this paper, we use the PWM technique to generate fringe patterns for the phase coding method. The gamma problem of the projector can be eliminated, and correct absolute phase can be retrieved. The proposed method only uses two grayscale values (0's and 255's), which can be used for real-time 3D shape measurement. Both simulation and experiment demonstrate the performance of the proposed method.
Keywords: Three-dimensional measurement; Fringe projection; Absolute phase retrieval; Pulse-width modulation

Yothin Rakvongthai, Soontorn Oraintara, Statistical texture retrieval in noise using complex wavelets, Signal Processing: Image Communication, Volume 28, Issue 10, November 2013, Pages 1494-1505, ISSN 0923-5965, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.image.2013.06.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923596513000994)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper investigates the use of complex wavelets for statistical texture retrieval in a noisy environment, in which the query image is contaminated by noise. To account for the presence of noise, the feature extraction step is based on parameter estimation in noise where features are extracted from the noisy query image by modeling the magnitude and phase of complex subband coefficients of the clean image, and relating the model's parameters to the noisy coefficients. In addition to using only the magnitude or phase which is in the form of the relative phase, we incorporate both magnitude and phase information to further improve the accuracy rate. The simulation results show the retrieval rate improvement by estimating the clean parameters from the noisy query image instead of assuming that the query image is clean. Furthermore, using both magnitude and phase of complex coefficients improves the accuracy rate from using either magnitude or phase alone, and that using complex-valued wavelets yields higher rate than using real-valued wavelets.
Keywords: Texture retrieval in noise; Complex wavelets; Relative phase; Parameter estimation in noise

Rahul Das Gupta, Jatindra K. Dash, Mukhopadhyay Sudipta, Rotation invariant textural feature extraction for image retrieval using eigen value analysis of intensity gradients and multi-resolution analysis, Pattern Recognition, Volume 46, Issue 12, December 2013, Pages 3256-3267, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2013.05.026.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320313002501)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper a novel rotation invariant multi-resolution based texture retrieval technique is proposed. The rotation invariance is achieved by aligning the direction of maximum variation of intensity gradient (defined as principal texture direction) along the reference axis. The principal direction is determined using eigen value analysis of gradient image. Wavelet transform based techniques are applied on the rotated image. The independent representation of textural energies along various directions enhances the retrieval performance over the existing rotation invariant wavelet based techniques which achieve rotation invariance by averaging the direction sensitive components. Extensive experiments on Brodatz database support this postulate.
Keywords: Content based image retrieval (CBIR); Principal texture direction; Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT); Rotated Wavelet Filter (RWF); Dual Tree Complex Wavelet Transform (DT-CWT); Dual Tree Rotated Complex Wavelet Filter (DT-RCWF)

Cheng Chung Wang, Hsi-Chien Shih, Bai Chuang Shyu, Andrew Chih Wei Huang, Effects of thalamic hemorrhagic lesions on explicit and implicit learning during the acquisition and retrieval phases in an animal model of central post-stroke pain, Behavioural Brain Research, Volume 317, 15 January 2017, Pages 251-262, ISSN 0166-4328, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbr.2016.09.053.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166432816307094)
Abstract: Abstract
Hemorrhagic stroke has many symptoms, including central pain, learning and memory impairments, motor deficits, language problems, emotional disturbances, and social maladjustment. Lesions of the ventral basal complex (VBC) of the thalamus elicit thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia, forming an animal model of central post-stroke pain (CPSP). However, no research has yet examined the involvement of learning and memory in CPSP using an animal model. The present study examined whether VBC lesions affect motor function, conditioned place preference (CPP; implicit memory), and spatial learning (explicit memory) in the acquisition and retrieval phases. The results showed that rats with VBC lesions exhibited thermal hyperalgesia in the acquisition and retrieval phases, indicating that these lesions can induce CPSP. During these phases, the rats with VBC lesions exhibited enhanced (morphine-induced) CPP learning. These lesions did not affect the rats’ total distance travelled, time spent, or velocity in the spatial learning tasks. The lesions also did not affect motor function in the rotarod task. Altogether, VBC lesions resulted in CPSP and facilitated CPP (implicit memory). However, the lesions did not affect spatial learning (explicit memory) or motor function. The relationship between CPSP and learning and memory is important for patients who suffer from such central pain. The implications of the present study may provide insights into helping reduce CPSP and its associated symptoms.
Keywords: Central post-stroke pain; Conditioned place preference; Spatial learning; Morris water maze; Motor function; Ventrobasal complex nuclei of the thalamus

R.S. Yan, L.Z. Cai, X.F. Meng, Correction of wave-front retrieval errors caused by the imperfect collimation of reference beam in phase-shifting interferometry, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 125, Issue 2, January 2014, Pages 601-605, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2012.05.054.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402613010565)
Abstract: Abstract
In phase-shifting interferometry (PSI) the standard wave retrieval formulae are usually derived based on the condition of a plane reference beam normal to the recording plane. In practice, however, the reference wave may be a spherical wave of large radius or even have a slight inclination at the same time due to the imperfect collimation and coaxality of the optical system, and this fact will introduce phase distortion for the reconstructed object wave-front. A simple digital processing algorithm without any additional measurements is proposed to determine the unknown parameters of the spherical reference wave and then correct the object wave errors reconstructed with standard wave retrieval formulae. The effectiveness of this method is verified by a series of computer simulations, and its limitation is also discussed.
Keywords: Holographic interferometry; Image reconstruction; Image forming and processing; Phase retrieval

Vincent Barra, Silvia Biasotti, 3D shape retrieval using Kernels on Extended Reeb Graphs, Pattern Recognition, Volume 46, Issue 11, November 2013, Pages 2985-2999, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2013.03.019.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320313001489)
Abstract: Abstract
3D shape retrieval is becoming an acute issue for numerous applications that span from CAD to serious games to biomedicine and all contexts where it is fundamental to automatically retrieve geometric information from a collection of 3D models. This paper addresses 3D shape retrieval in terms of a graph-based description and the definition of a corresponding similarity measure. For this purpose, 3D models are represented as bags of shortest paths defined over well chosen Extended Reeb Graphs, while the similarity between pairs of Extended Reeb Graphs is addressed through kernels adapted to these descriptions. Results are comparable with the best results of the literature, and the modularity and evolutivity of the method ensure its applicability to other problems, from partial shape matching to classification.
Keywords: 3D model retrieval; Kernels; Extended Reeb Graphs

Donatella Ugolini, Monica Neri, Cristina Casilli, Stefano Bonassi, Development of search filters for retrieval of literature on the molecular epidemiology of cancer, Mutation Research/Genetic Toxicology and Environmental Mutagenesis, Volume 701, Issue 2, 30 August 2010, Pages 107-110, ISSN 1383-5718, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mrgentox.2010.05.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1383571810001993)
Abstract: Objective
The available tools for searching literature in the area of molecular epidemiology of cancer, a relatively novel discipline, are largely unsatisfactory. The aim of this project was to develop two search filters in MEDLINE that would facilitate the retrieval of studies on cancer molecular epidemiology and to compare their performance.
Methods
Citations of all articles published in 2007 in three top journals in this area were hand-screened to establish a gold standard reference set of relevant papers. Two filters were created with this set: the first was based on the frequency of descriptors listed in the National Library of Medicine (NLM) Medical Subject Headings Thesaurus (MeSH terms) only, the second was based on the frequency of words in titles and abstracts (text-words), besides MeSH terms.

The sensitivity, specificity, precision and accuracy rates of the two filters were calculated as performance measures.
Results
Out of all 1602 published articles, 344 were found to be pertinent to cancer molecular epidemiology; these formed the gold standard set. The first filter was the most specific (99%) and showed a good precision (93.2%), the second showed a higher sensitivity (78.2%) and accuracy (91.6%).
Conclusion
The two filters proposed here represent a balance between sensitivity and specificity. Redefinition and elaboration of more appropriate NLM MeSH terms could greatly facilitate the retrieval of studies on the molecular epidemiology of cancer. Authors themselves could facilitate this by inserting adequate words in title or abstract of their articles.
Keywords: Molecular epidemiology; Cancer; Information storage and retrieval; Sensitivity and specificity

E.D. Avgerinos, J. Bath, J. Stevens, B. McDaniel, L. Marone, E. Dillavou, J.S. Cho, M.S. Makaroun, R.A. Chaer, Technical and Patient-related Characteristics Associated with Challenging Retrieval of Inferior Vena Cava Filters, European Journal of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Volume 46, Issue 3, September 2013, Pages 353-359, ISSN 1078-5884, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejvs.2013.06.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1078588413004061)
Abstract: Objective
To identify patient-related and device-specific predictors of challenging and failed inferior vena cava (IVC) filter retrievals.
Methods
Retrospective single center review of consecutive retrievable IVC filters placed between 2004 and 2009. Retrieval was defined as challenging when it was unsuccessful owing to reported technical failure or when adjunctive endovascular maneuvers or access sites were recruited. Data regarding patient- and filter-specific information were collected. Logistic regression models were used to identify predictors of the reported outcomes. Statistical significance was set at p &lt; .05.
Results
Four hundred and one patients underwent retrievable IVC filter placement—the majority indicated for prophylaxis (67%). Two hundred and fifty-nine retrievals were attempted and 237 filters were successfully retrieved (overall retrieval rate: 59.1%). Eleven out of 259 (4.2%) attempts were aborted owing to significant thrombus within the filter and 11 (4.2%) were technically unsuccessful. In 142 patients no attempt for filter retrieval was made—the major reason being physician oversight (44.3%). Thirty-eight out of 248 (15.3%) non-aborted filter retrievals were recorded as challenging. Failed retrievals were predicted by prolonged dwell time (96.9 ± 111.9 vs. 29.5 ± 25.1 days, odds ratio [OR] 1.034, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.016–1.053, p &lt; .001), therapeutic indication (OR 5.197, 95% CI 1.200–22.511, p = .028), and filter wall apposition (OR 11.857, 95% CI 2.069–67.968, p = .006). Challenging retrievals were predicted by dwell time (51.1 ± 69.8 vs. 29.1 ± 24.5 days, OR 1.017, 95% CI 1.005–1.029, p = .007), filter tilt (OR 2.607, 95% CI 1.045–6.508, p = .040) and filter wall apposition (OR 6.149, 95% CI 2.398–15.763, p = &lt;.001).
Conclusions
Physician oversight leads to poor IVC filter retrieval rates. Retrievals can be challenging or fail when the dwell time is &gt;50 days and &gt;90 days, respectively, and when the filter hook apposes the caval wall. Filter tilt increases retrieval difficulty but not failure rates.
Keywords: Deep venous thrombosis; IVC filter; IVC filter complications; IVC filter retrieval; Pulmonary embolism

Shiliang Zhang, Qi Tian, Gang Hua, Qingming Huang, Wen Gao, ObjectPatchNet: Towards scalable and semantic image annotation and retrieval, Computer Vision and Image Understanding, Volume 118, January 2014, Pages 16-29, ISSN 1077-3142, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cviu.2013.03.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1077314213001574)
Abstract: Abstract
The ever increasing Internet image collection densely samples the real world objects, scenes, etc. and is commonly accompanied with multiple metadata such as textual descriptions and user comments. Such image data has potential to serve as a knowledge source for large-scale image applications. Facilitated by such publically available and ever-increasing loosely annotated image data on the Internet, we propose a scalable data-driven solution for annotating and retrieving Web-scale image data. We extrapolate from large-scale loosely annotated images a compact and informative representation, namely ObjectPatchNet. Each vertex in ObjectPatchNet, which is called as an ObjectPatchNode, is defined as a collection of discriminative image patches annotated with object category labels. The edge linking two ObjectPatchNodes models the co-occurrence relationship among different objects in the same image. Therefore, ObjectPatchNet models not only probabilistically labeled image patches, but also the contextual relationship between objects. It is well suited to scalable image annotation task. Besides, we further take ObjectPatchNet as a visual vocabulary with semantic labels, and hence are able to easily develop inverted file indexing for efficient semantic image retrieval. ObjectPatchNet is tested on both large-scale image annotation and large-scale image retrieval applications. Experimental results manifest that ObjectPatchNet is both discriminative and efficient in these applications.
Keywords: Visual vocabulary; Large-scale image retrieval; Image annotation

Justin N. Carstens, Scott M. Bailey, Jerry D. Lumpe, Cora E. Randall, Understanding uncertainties in the retrieval of polar mesospheric clouds from the cloud imaging and particle size experiment in the presence of a bright Rayleigh background, Journal of Atmospheric and Solar-Terrestrial Physics, Volume 104, November 2013, Pages 197-212, ISSN 1364-6826, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jastp.2013.08.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364682613002174)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a framework for understanding and quantifying the leverage available for inverting the radiance signal in order to retrieve particle size distribution mode radius and albedo from polar mesospheric clouds (PMC) observations using the cloud imaging and particle size (CIPS) instrument on board the aeronomy of ice in the mesosphere (AIM) satellite. The observed signal is a superposition of the scattering angle dependence of the cloud albedo and the Rayleigh scattered albedo controlled by ozone at the stratopause. The leverage as is defined in the paper is a way to quantify how much the net scattering angle dependence changes as a function of mode radius. The leverage is determined by decomposing the observed signal into orthogonal components which isolate the parts of the signal that are unique to changes in mode radius from those that could be due to changes in the background. This leverage is considered along with instrument noise performance to determine retrieval uncertainties and to understand minimum thresholds in the cloud retrieval parameters.
Keywords: Polar mesospheric clouds; Retrieval; Uncertainty; Remote sensing; Rayleigh scattering

M.E. ElAlami, A new matching strategy for content based image retrieval system, Applied Soft Computing, Volume 14, Part C, January 2014, Pages 407-418, ISSN 1568-4946, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2013.10.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494613003372)
Abstract: Abstract
Adopting effective model to access the desired images is essential nowadays with the presence of a huge amount of digital images. The present paper introduces an accurate and rapid model for content based image retrieval process depending on a new matching strategy. The proposed model is composed of four major phases namely: features extraction, dimensionality reduction, ANN classifier and matching strategy. As for the feature extraction phase, it extracts a color and texture features, respectively, called color co-occurrence matrix (CCM) and difference between pixels of scan pattern (DBPSP). However, integrating multiple features can overcome the problems of single feature, but the system works slowly mainly because of the high dimensionality of the feature space. Therefore, the dimensionality reduction technique selects the effective features that jointly have the largest dependency on the target class and minimal redundancy among themselves. Consequently, these features reduce the calculation work and the computation time in the retrieval process. The artificial neural network (ANN) in our proposed model serves as a classifier so that the selected features of query image are the input and its output is one of the multi classes that have the largest similarity to the query image. In addition, the proposed model presents an effective feature matching strategy that depends on the idea of the minimum area between two vectors to compute the similarity value between a query image and the images in the determined class. Finally, the results presented in this paper demonstrate that the proposed model provides accurate retrieval results and achieve improvement in performance with significantly less computation time compared with other models.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Color co-occurrence matrix; Dimensionality reduction; Artificial neural networks; Similarity measure

Karren M. Takamura, Harlan C. Amstutz, Zhen Lu, Pat A. Campbell, Edward Ebramzadeh, Wear Analysis of 39 Conserve Plus Metal-on-Metal Hip Resurfacing Retrievals, The Journal of Arthroplasty, Volume 29, Issue 2, February 2014, Pages 410-415, ISSN 0883-5403, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.arth.2013.05.032.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0883540313004129)
Abstract: Abstract
There have been increasing concerns regarding adverse local tissue reactions (ALTR) following metal-on-metal (MOM) hip arthroplasties. This study examined wear rates in retrievals of one design of MOM resurfacing arthroplasty, and assessed the differences in wear between those with and without ALTR. Wear measurements were made on 39 MOM resurfacing components (30 femoral, 9 acetabular) which were at least 2 years in vivo. Seven hips (6 patients; 4 acetabular components, 7 femoral components) were identified to have ALTR. Acetabular component abduction and anteversion angles were determined using EBRA, and the contact-patch-to-rim (CPR) distance was calculated. The ALTR group had higher linear femoral and acetabular wear rates, acetabular anteversion and abduction angles, lower CPR, and longer time to revision. Given the increased risk for ALTR associated with acetabular component malpositioning, patients with malpositioned acetabular components may require closer clinical follow-up and monitoring.
Keywords: metal-on-metal; wear; ALTR; hip resurfacing; arthroplasty; implant retrieval

Xutang Zhang, Xin Hou, Xiaofeng Chen, Ting Zhuang, Ontology-based semantic retrieval for engineering domain knowledge, Neurocomputing, Volume 116, 20 September 2013, Pages 382-391, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2011.12.057.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231212006935)
Abstract: The semantic retrieval of the engineering domain knowledge is critical in many engineering activities, e.g., product design and process planning. To address the problems with existing keyword-based and semantic-enable methods, we propose an ontology-based semantic retrieval scheme for knowledge search and retrieval from domain documents. In our scheme, domain ontology is first constructed using the graph-based approach to automating construction of domain ontology GRAONTO proposed by our group, and query semantic extension and retrieval are then adopted for semantic-based knowledge retrieval. For query semantic extension, latent semantic analysis is adopted to discover the latent semantic relationships between queries and ontology semantic features, and ontology semantic graph is used to represent the query. For semantic retrieval, a graph-based k-means method is proposed to partition the domain documents into several clusters, and a hierarchical searching strategy is employed for document retrieval. Finally, experimental results on the fixture design corpus verify the benefits of the proposed scheme.
Keywords: Ontology; Knowledge retrieval; Latent semantic analysis; Document clustering

Shouyu Wang, Nan Sun, Liang Xue, Hailong Li, Jiancheng Lai, Yang Song, Zhenhua Li, Radial Hilbert transform phase retrieval algorithm for circular carrier interferogram, Optics Communications, Volume 304, 1 September 2013, Pages 148-152, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2013.04.040.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401813004082)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we introduce an easy method called radial Hilbert transform phase retrieval algorithm in order to extract phase distribution from single circular carrier interferogram. This new method overcomes the drawbacks of sign ambiguity via some traditional phase retrieval algorithms and simplifies the phase unwrapping method as only one dimensional phase unwrapping is needed. It also remains the advantages of Hilbert transform method such as it could realize automatically calculation without choosing specific information as fast Fourier transform method and obtain more details since it remains more high order information in frequency domain. The approach could be applied to calculate the wavefront from circular carrier interferograms.
Keywords: Hilbert transform; Phase retrieval algorithm; Circular carrier interferogram

J.S. Sutcliffe and S. Palfi, Object Retrieval-Detour Task☆, In Reference Module in Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Psychology, Elsevier, 2017, ISBN 9780128093245, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-809324-5.00711-2.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128093245007112)
Abstract: Abstract
The object retrieval detour task (ORDT) is a task designed to assess the functional and anatomical integrity of the fronto-striatal pathway in humans and nonhuman primates. This entry describes the ORDT task and its potential to detect a deficit and a restoration of a frontal-type cognitive deficit in primate displaying striatal pathologies.
Keywords: Frontal cortex; Huntington disease; Nonhuman primate model; Striatal degeneration; Subcortical cognitive deficit

Dmitry S. Efremenko, Diego G. Loyola, Robert J.D. Spurr, Adrian Doicu, Acceleration of radiative transfer model calculations for the retrieval of trace gases under cloudy conditions, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 135, March 2014, Pages 58-65, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2013.11.014.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S002240731300469X)
Abstract: Abstract
In the independent pixel approximation (IPA), radiative transfer computations involving cloudy scenes require two separate calls to the radiative transfer model (RTM), one call for a clear sky scenario, the other for an atmosphere containing clouds. In this paper, clouds are considered as an optically homogeneous layer. We present two novel methods for RTM performance enhancement with particular application to trace gas retrievals under cloudy conditions. Both methods are based on reusing results from clear-sky RTM calculations to speed up corresponding calculations for the cloud-filled scenario.

The first approach is numerically exact, and has been applied to the discrete-ordinate with matrix exponential (DOME) RTM. Results from the original clear sky computation can be saved in the memory and reused for the non-cloudy layers in the second computation. In addition, for the whole-atmosphere boundary-value approach to the determination of the intensity field, we can exploit a ’telescoping technique’ to reduce the dimensionality (and hence the computational effort for the solution) of the boundary value problem in the absence of Rayleigh scattering contributions for higher azimuthal components of the radiation field.

The second approach is (for the cloudy scenario) to generate a spectral correction applied to the radiation field from a fast two-stream RTM. This correction is based on the use of principal-component analysis (PCA) applied to a given window of spectral optical property data, in order to exploit redundancy in the data and confine the number of full-stream multiple scatter computations to the first few EOFs (Empirical Orthogonal Functions) arising from the PCA. This method has been applied to the LIDORT RTM; although the method involves some approximation, it provides accuracy better than 0.2%, and a speed-up factor of approximately 2 compared with two calls of RTM.
Keywords: Fast radiative transfer model; Cloud; Ozone retrieval

Matias M. Pulopulos, Mercedes Almela, Vanesa Hidalgo, Carolina Villada, Sara Puig-Perez, Alicia Salvador, Acute stress does not impair long-term memory retrieval in older people, Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, Volume 104, September 2013, Pages 16-24, ISSN 1074-7427, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nlm.2013.04.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1074742713000634)
Abstract: Abstract
Previous studies have shown that stress-induced cortisol increases impair memory retrieval in young people. This effect has not been studied in older people; however, some findings suggest that age-related changes in the brain can affect the relationships between acute stress, cortisol and memory in older people. Our aim was to investigate the effects of acute stress on long-term memory retrieval in healthy older people. To this end, 76 participants from 56 to 76 years old (38 men and 38 women) were exposed to an acute psychosocial stressor or a control task. After the stress/control task, the recall of pictures, words and stories learned the previous day was assessed. There were no differences in memory retrieval between the stress and control groups on any of the memory tasks. In addition, stress-induced cortisol response was not associated with memory retrieval. An age-related decrease in cortisol receptors and functional changes in the amygdala and hippocampus could underlie the differences observed between the results from this study and those found in studies performed with young people.
Keywords: Stress; Memory retrieval; Acute stress; Older adults; Hypothalamus–Pituitary–Adrenal axis; HPA-axis; Cortisol; Aging

Megumi Chikano, Koichi Kise, Masakazu Iwamura, Seiichi Uchida, Shinichiro Omachi, Recovery and localization of handwritings by a camera-pen based on tracking and document image retrieval, Pattern Recognition Letters, Volume 35, 1 January 2014, Pages 214-224, ISSN 0167-8655, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2012.10.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167865512003339)
Abstract: Abstract
We propose a camera-based method for digital recovery of handwritings on ordinary paper. Our method is characterized by the following two points: (1) it requires no special device such as special paper other than a camera-pen to recover handwritings, (2) if the handwriting is on a printed document, the method is capable of localizing it onto an electronic equivalent of the printed document. The above points are enabled by the following processing. The handwriting is recovered by the LK tracking to trace the move of the pen-tip. The recovered shape is localized onto the corresponding part of the electronic document with the help of document image retrieval called LLAH (locally likely arrangement hashing). A new framework for stably estimating the homography from a camera-captured image to the corresponding electronic document allows us to localize the recovered handwritings accurately. We experimentally evaluate the accuracy, processing time and memory usage of the proposed method using 30 handwritings. From the comparison to other methods that implement alternative ways for realizing the same functionality, we have confirmed that the proposed method is superior to those other methods.
Keywords: Camera-pen; Document image retrieval; LLAH; SURF; LK tracking; Handwriting

Edgar Meij, Dolf Trieschnigg, Maarten de Rijke, Wessel Kraaij, Conceptual language models for domain-specific retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 46, Issue 4, July 2010, Pages 448-469, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2009.09.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457309001071)
Abstract: Over the years, various meta-languages have been used to manually enrich documents with conceptual knowledge of some kind. Examples include keyword assignment to citations or, more recently, tags to websites. In this paper we propose generative concept models as an extension to query modeling within the language modeling framework, which leverages these conceptual annotations to improve retrieval. By means of relevance feedback the original query is translated into a conceptual representation, which is subsequently used to update the query model.

Extensive experimental work on five test collections in two domains shows that our approach gives significant improvements in terms of recall, initial precision and mean average precision with respect to a baseline without relevance feedback. On one test collection, it is also able to outperform a text-based pseudo-relevance feedback approach based on relevance models. On the other test collections it performs similarly to relevance models. Overall, conceptual language models have the added advantage of offering query and browsing suggestions in the form of conceptual annotations. In addition, the internal structure of the meta-language can be exploited to add related terms.

Our contributions are threefold. First, an extensive study is conducted on how to effectively translate a textual query into a conceptual representation. Second, we propose a method for updating a textual query model using the concepts in conceptual representation. Finally, we provide an extensive analysis of when and how this conceptual feedback improves retrieval.
Keywords: Information retrieval; Meta-language; Language modeling; Query modeling

Paul B. Alton, Retrieval of seasonal Rubisco-limited photosynthetic capacity at global FLUXNET sites from hyperspectral satellite remote sensing: Impact on carbon modelling, Agricultural and Forest Meteorology, Volume 232, 15 January 2017, Pages 74-88, ISSN 0168-1923, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agrformet.2016.08.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168192316303483)
Abstract: Abstract
Process-based ecophysiological models, which simulate carbon exchange at the land-surface, are powerful and indispensable tools for understanding how vegetation behaves under present and future climate. However, these models are necessarily complex, containing numerous biophysical parameters which are often poorly defined. The current study develops a novel retrieval of Rubisco-limited top-of-canopy photosynthetic capacity (i.e. maximum carboxylation rate, V cmax 25 , toc ), which is one of the most critical parameters in the calculation of Gross Primary Productivity (GPP). The retrieval combines standard remote sensing satellite products of Leaf Area Index (LAI), from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), with a hyperspectral index of total canopy chlorophyll concentration from the MEdium Resolution Imaging Spectrometer (MERIS). Monthly values of V cmax 25 , toc are determined over a 9 year period for 296 global FLUXNET sites (catalogue made available online) and 8 Plant Functional Types (PFTs). PFT averages agree favourably with compilations of field-based measurements. However, according to a Monte Carlo analysis, our method is still currently subject to large systematic uncertainties (25–30%), much of which arises from the empirical relationship between maximum electron transport and leaf chlorophyll content. For all 8 PFTs, except tropical broadleaf forest, V cmax 25 , toc varies considerably across the season (generally a factor of 1.6). Similarly, variability between sites of the same PFT is significant (interquartile range is 40% of the median). This suggests an important additional role for satellites in the spatial and temporal parameterisation of carbon models. Inclusion of this temporal and spatial variability in a process-based ecophysiological model produces, respectively, an impact of 11% and 12% on simulated GPP.
Keywords: Carbon cycle; Land-surface modelling; Photosynthetic capacity; Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS); FLUXNET; MEdium Resolution Imaging Spectrometer (MERIS)

Christina Sobin, Mayra Gisel Flores-Montoya, Juan Manuel Alvarez, Early chronic low-level Pb exposure alters global exploratory behaviors but does not impair spatial and object memory retrieval in an object-in-place task in pre-adolescent C57BL/6J mice, Neurotoxicology and Teratology, Available online 12 January 2017, ISSN 0892-0362, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ntt.2017.01.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0892036217300247)
Abstract: Abstract
The mechanisms by which early chronic low-level lead (Pb) exposure disrupts the developing brain are not yet understood. Rodent models have provided promising results however behavioral tests sensitive to effects at lowest levels of exposure during development are needed. Preadolescent animals (N = 52) exposed to low and higher levels of Pb via lactation from birth to PND 28 completed the Object-in-Place Task of visual spatial and visual object memory retrieval (at PND 28). Generalized linear mixed models were used, controlling for sex and litter as a random effect. As compared with controls, global vertical exploratory behavior (rearing) markedly increased during memory retrieval. The findings suggested that early chronic Pb exposure altered the development of critical exploratory functions needed for learning and survival. Behaviors exhibited in novel spatial and novel object zone perimeters suggested that the Object-in-Place task is a valid measure of visual spatial and visual object memory in pre-adolescent C57BL/6J mice. Additional studies are needed to understand how early chronic low-level lead exposure disrupts the trajectory and possible linkages of critical exploratory and perceptual systems during development.
Keywords: Developmental lead exposure; Low-level lead exposure; Visual spatial memory; Visual object memory; Mouse behavior

Chao Xie, Shengyi Li, Shanyong Chen, A method for calibrating the position error of phase retrieval with transverse translation diversity in optical wavefront measurement, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 124, Issue 21, November 2013, Pages 5019-5024, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2013.03.062.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402613003835)
Abstract: Abstract
We present a method for calibrating the position error of phase retrieval with transverse translation diversity in optical wavefront in situation where the position error sharply influences algorithm precision. This method involves testifying that the essence of the position error in phase retrieval is the translation in frequency domain and the minimum of iterative error against position error reaches when there is no position error. Then the least square method is used for fitting the relationship between the iterative error and the assumed position error in polynomial function. The computer simulations used to prove the validity of this method are described. The results indicated that this method can calibrate the position error to approximately 1/500 mm which nearly has no influence on the phase retrieval.
Keywords: Position error; Phase retrieval; Least square

Willem Huijbers, Cyriel M.A. Pennartz, David C. Rubin, Sander M. Daselaar, Imagery and retrieval of auditory and visual information: Neural correlates of successful and unsuccessful performance, Neuropsychologia, Volume 49, Issue 7, June 2011, Pages 1730-1740, ISSN 0028-3932, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2011.02.051.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393211001242)
Abstract: Remembering past events – or episodic retrieval – consists of several components. There is evidence that mental imagery plays an important role in retrieval and that the brain regions supporting imagery overlap with those supporting retrieval. An open issue is to what extent these regions support successful vs. unsuccessful imagery and retrieval processes. Previous studies that examined regional overlap between imagery and retrieval used uncontrolled memory conditions, such as autobiographical memory tasks, that cannot distinguish between successful and unsuccessful retrieval. A second issue is that fMRI studies that compared imagery and retrieval have used modality-aspecific cues that are likely to activate auditory and visual processing regions simultaneously. Thus, it is not clear to what extent identified brain regions support modality-specific or modality-independent imagery and retrieval processes. In the current fMRI study, we addressed this issue by comparing imagery to retrieval under controlled memory conditions in both auditory and visual modalities. We also obtained subjective measures of imagery quality allowing us to dissociate regions contributing to successful vs. unsuccessful imagery. Results indicated that auditory and visual regions contribute both to imagery and retrieval in a modality-specific fashion. In addition, we identified four sets of brain regions with distinct patterns of activity that contributed to imagery and retrieval in a modality-independent fashion. The first set of regions, including hippocampus, posterior cingulate cortex, medial prefrontal cortex and angular gyrus, showed a pattern common to imagery/retrieval and consistent with successful performance regardless of task. The second set of regions, including dorsal precuneus, anterior cingulate and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, also showed a pattern common to imagery and retrieval, but consistent with unsuccessful performance during both tasks. Third, left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex showed an interaction between task and performance and was associated with successful imagery but unsuccessful retrieval. Finally, the fourth set of regions, including ventral precuneus, midcingulate cortex and supramarginal gyrus, showed the opposite interaction, supporting unsuccessful imagery, but successful retrieval performance. Results are discussed in relation to reconstructive, attentional, semantic memory, and working memory processes. This is the first study to separate the neural correlates of successful and unsuccessful performance for both imagery and retrieval and for both auditory and visual modalities.
Keywords: Episodic memory; Imagery; fMRI; Visual; Auditory

Erjia Yan, Ying Ding, Staša Milojević, Cassidy R. Sugimoto, Topics in dynamic research communities: An exploratory study for the field of information retrieval, Journal of Informetrics, Volume 6, Issue 1, January 2012, Pages 140-153, ISSN 1751-1577, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joi.2011.10.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1751157711000976)
Abstract: Research topics and research communities are not disconnected from each other: communities and topics are interwoven and co-evolving. Yet, scientometric evaluations of topics and communities have been conducted independently and synchronically, with researchers often relying on homogeneous unit of analysis, such as authors, journals, institutions, or topics. Therefore, new methods are warranted that examine the dynamic relationship between topics and communities. This paper examines how research topics are mixed and matched in evolving research communities by using a hybrid approach which integrates both topic identification and community detection techniques. Using a data set on information retrieval (IR) publications, two layers of enriched information are constructed and contrasted: one is the communities detected through the topology of coauthorship network and the other is the topics of the communities detected through the topic model. We find evidence to support the assumption that IR communities and topics are interwoven and co-evolving, and topics can be used to understand the dynamics of community structures. We recommend the use of the hybrid approach to study the dynamic interactions of topics and communities.
Keywords: Community; Knowledge discovery; Coauthorship; Network; Latent Dirichlet Allocation

Boris Onykiy, Alexey Artamonov, Anastasia Ananieva, Evheniy Tretyakov, Larisa Pronicheva, Kristina Ionkina, Alyona Suslina, Agent Technologies for Polythematic Organizations Information-Analytical Support, Procedia Computer Science, Volume 88, 2016, Pages 336-340, ISSN 1877-0509, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2016.07.445.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S187705091631701X)
Abstract: Abstract
Large scientific organizations, laboratories, departments and scientific groups exercise need in information support due to issues related to the navigation among huge amount of information in the Internet that is growing every day. This paper describes agent-based approach that is used in Multi-agent information and analytical system (MIAS) developed at the National Research Nuclear University “MEPhI” and addressed challenges in the information support that was encountered by our partners: the “Plasma Physics” Department, Department of “Laser physics”, laboratory “Photonics” and others. The MIAS support of object-oriented approach and international standards of linked data contributes to the development of future information systems that will enable forecasting on specific scientific field.
Keywords: agent; multi-agent system; Big Data; Data mining; retrieval system; information and analytical system

Jeremy J. Harrison, Christopher D. Boone, Peter F. Bernath, New and improved infra-red absorption cross sections and ACE-FTS retrievals of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4), Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, Volume 186, January 2017, Pages 139-149, ISSN 0022-4073, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2016.04.025.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S002240731630108X)
Abstract: Abstract
Carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) is one of the species regulated by the Montreal Protocol on account of its ability to deplete stratospheric ozone. As such, the inconsistency between observations of its abundance and estimated sources and sinks is an important problem requiring urgent attention (Carpenter et al., 2014) [5]. Satellite remote-sensing has a role to play, particularly limb sounders which can provide vertical profiles into the stratosphere and therefore validate stratospheric loss rates in atmospheric models.

This work is in two parts. The first describes new and improved high-resolution infra-red absorption cross sections of carbon tetrachloride/dry synthetic air over the spectral range 700–860 cm−1 for a range of temperatures and pressures (7.5–760 Torr and 208–296 K) appropriate for atmospheric conditions. This new cross-section dataset improves upon the one currently available in the HITRAN and GEISA databases. The second describes a new, preliminary ACE-FTS carbon tetrachloride retrieval that improves upon the v3.0/v3.5 data products, which are biased high by up to ~20–30% relative to ground measurements. Making use of the new spectroscopic data, this retrieval also improves the microwindow selection, contains additional interfering species, and utilises a new instrumental lineshape; it will form the basis for the upcoming v4.0 CCl4 data product.
Keywords: CCl4; Carbon tetrachloride; High-resolution Fourier transform spectroscopy; Infra-red absorption cross sections; Remote sensing; Atmospheric chemistry

Irene Lopatovska, Ioannis Arapakis, Theories, methods and current research on emotions in library and information science, information retrieval and human–computer interaction, Information Processing & Management, Volume 47, Issue 4, July 2011, Pages 575-592, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2010.09.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457310000737)
Abstract: Emotions are an integral component of all human activities, including human–computer interactions. This article reviews literature on the theories of emotions, methods for studying emotions, and their role in human information behaviour. It also examines current research on emotions in library and information science, information retrieval and human–computer interaction, and outlines some of the challenges and directions for future work.
Keywords: Affect; Affective computing; Affective feedback; Emotion; Emotion research; Feelings; Methods for studying affect; Subjective variables; Theories of emotion

Xinxue Ma, Jianli Wang, Bin Wang, Hongzhuang Li, Yuanhao Wu, Zongyang Wang, Peifeng Wei, Comparative analysis for measurement precision of phase retrieval wavefront sensor, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 124, Issue 24, December 2013, Pages 7075-7079, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2013.05.143.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402613008206)
Abstract: Abstract
In order to analyze the performance of phase retrieval wavefront sensor (PRWS), an experimental based on the PRWS method has been built. In this paper, we utilize liquid crystal space light modulator (LC-SLM) to produce single aberration and random aberration, and validate the ability of PRWS measurement for any aberrations. Mathematic model of phase retrieval measurement is constructed based on the diffraction theory, and solved using gradient based optimization algorithm. Experimental results demonstrate that good agreement is obtained among the errors distribution, PV value and RMS value of ZYGO interferometer. The measurement precision of wavefront is 3/1000 wavelength RMS. Therefore, the feasibility and accuracy of the proposed method can be confirmed.
Keywords: Phase retrieval; Wavefront sensor; ZYGO interferometer; Liquid crystal space light modulator; Zernike

Emmanouil Amolochitis, Ioannis T. Christou, Zheng-Hua Tan, Ramjee Prasad, A heuristic hierarchical scheme for academic search and retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 49, Issue 6, November 2013, Pages 1326-1343, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2013.07.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457313000745)
Abstract: Abstract
We present PubSearch, a hybrid heuristic scheme for re-ranking academic papers retrieved from standard digital libraries such as the ACM Portal. The scheme is based on the hierarchical combination of a custom implementation of the term frequency heuristic, a time-depreciated citation score and a graph-theoretic computed score that relates the paper’s index terms with each other. We designed and developed a meta-search engine that submits user queries to standard digital repositories of academic publications and re-ranks the repository results using the hierarchical heuristic scheme. We evaluate our proposed re-ranking scheme via user feedback against the results of ACM Portal on a total of 58 different user queries specified from 15 different users. The results show that our proposed scheme significantly outperforms ACM Portal in terms of retrieval precision as measured by most common metrics in Information Retrieval including Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain (NDCG), Expected Reciprocal Rank (ERR) as well as a newly introduced lexicographic rule (LEX) of ranking search results. In particular, PubSearch outperforms ACM Portal by more than 77% in terms of ERR, by more than 11% in terms of NDCG, and by more than 907.5% in terms of LEX. We also re-rank the top-10 results of a subset of the original 58 user queries produced by Google Scholar, Microsoft Academic Search, and ArnetMiner; the results show that PubSearch compares very well against these search engines as well. The proposed scheme can be easily plugged in any existing search engine for retrieval of academic publications.
Keywords: Academic search; Search and retrieval; Heuristic document re-ranking

Song Qing, Jie Zhang, Tingwei Cui, Yuhai Bao, Remote sensing retrieval of inorganic suspended particle size in the Bohai Sea, Continental Shelf Research, Volume 73, 1 February 2014, Pages 64-71, ISSN 0278-4343, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csr.2013.11.020.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278434313003919)
Abstract: Abstract
In situ data set in the Bohai Sea of China was collected to test a previous model for surface water inorganic suspended particle size developed by Bowers et al. Based on this, a simple empirical model was then established for estimating median particle size in the Bohai Sea. The median inorganic suspended particle size was retrieved from ratio of green (560 nm) to red (665 nm) band. The model produced retrieval of particle sizes which are in good agreement with in situ measurements with the average percent difference of 27.0% (N=40, R2=0.55) and root mean squared deviation of 4.311 μm. This model was quite insensitive to input noises. Then the model was applied to MERIS Level 2 data and MODIS Level 3 data (monthly climatology) to analyze the spatio-temporal pattern and seasonal variability of inorganic suspended particle size in the Bohai Sea. The size of inorganic suspended particles was expected to be related to water turbulence. Wind was idendified as an important influencing factor of particle size distribution. There was an onshore to offshore gradient in inorganic suspended particle size in the Bohai Sea. A significant seasonal cycle exits in particle sizes (large in summer and small in winter). More independent dataset was needed for further research.
Keywords: Inorganic suspended particle size; Remote sensing retrieval; Bohai Sea; MERIS; MODIS

Heng Lyu, Qiao Wang, Chuanqing Wu, Li Zhu, Bin Yin, Yunmei Li, Jiazhu Huang, Retrieval of phycocyanin concentration from remote-sensing reflectance using a semi-analytic model in eutrophic lakes, Ecological Informatics, Volume 18, November 2013, Pages 178-187, ISSN 1574-9541, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecoinf.2013.09.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574954113000861)
Abstract: Abstract
With the rapid development of the economy in recent years, massive algal (blue-green algae in particular) blooms have often observed in Chinese eutrophic lakes. The concentration of the cyanobacterial pigment phycocyanin (PC), an accessory pigment unique to freshwater blue-green algae, is often used as a quantitative indicator of blue-green algae in eutrophic inland waters. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the semi-analytic PC retrieval algorithm proposed by Simis et al. and to explore the potential to improve this PC algorithm so that it is more suitable for eutrophic lakes, such as Taihu Lake. In this paper, we recalculated the correction coefficients γ and δ to calculate the absorptions of chlorophyll-a at 665 nm and the absorptions of phycocyanin at 620 nm in terms of in situ measurements and observed that the values of these coefficients differed from the values used by Simis et al. and Randolph et al. The two coefficients are site dependent due to the different bio-optical properties of lakes. We also observed that the specific PC absorption at 620 nm apc*(620) decreases exponentially with an increase in PC concentrations. Therefore, a non-linear power–function of apc*(620), instead of a constant value of apc*(620) as used by Simis et al., was proposed for our improved PC retrieval algorithm in Taihu Lake, yielding a squared correlation coefficient (R2) of 0.55 and a root mean square error (RMSE) of 58.89 μg/L. Compared with the original PC retrieval algorithm by Simis et al., the improved retrieval algorithm has generally superior performance. In evaluating the limitation of the PC retrieval algorithms, we observed that the ratio of the total suspended solids to phycocyanin can be used as a primary measure for retrieval performance. Validation in Dianchi Lake and an error analysis proved that the improved PC algorithm has a better universality and is more suitable for eutrophic lakes with higher PC concentrations.
Keywords: Phycocyanin; Remote sensing; Retrieval; Semi-analytic algorithm; Eutrophic lake

Panagiotis Kokkalis, Vassilis Amiridis, James D. Allan, Alexandros Papayannis, Stavros Solomos, Ioannis Binietoglou, Aikaterini Bougiatioti, Alexandra Tsekeri, Athanasios Nenes, Philip D. Rosenberg, Franco Marenco, Eleni Marinou, Jeni Vasilescu, Doina Nicolae, Hugh Coe, Asan Bacak, Anatoli Chaikovsky, Validation of LIRIC aerosol concentration retrievals using airborne measurements during a biomass burning episode over Athens, Atmospheric Research, Volume 183, 1 January 2017, Pages 255-267, ISSN 0169-8095, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosres.2016.09.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169809516303337)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper we validate the Lidar-Radiometer Inversion Code (LIRIC) retrievals of the aerosol concentration in the fine mode, using the airborne aerosol chemical composition dataset obtained over the Greater Athens Area (GAA) in Greece, during the ACEMED campaign. The study focuses on the 2nd of September 2011, when a long-range transported smoke layer was observed in the free troposphere over Greece, in the height range from 2 to 3 km. CIMEL sun-photometric measurements revealed high AOD (~ 0.4 at 532 nm) and Ångström exponent values (~ 1.7 at 440/870 nm), in agreement with coincident ground-based lidar observations. Airborne chemical composition measurements performed over the GAA, revealed increased CO volume concentration (~ 110 ppbv), with 57% sulphate dominance in the PM1 fraction. For this case, we compare LIRIC retrievals of the aerosol concentration in the fine mode with the airborne Aerosol Mass Spectrometer (AMS) and Passive Cavity Aerosol Spectrometer Probe (PCASP) measurements. Our analysis shows that the remote sensing retrievals are in a good agreement with the measured airborne in-situ data from 2 to 4 km. The discrepancies observed between LIRIC and airborne measurements at the lower troposphere (below 2 km), could be explained by the spatial and temporal variability of the aerosol load within the area where the airborne data were averaged along with the different time windows of the retrievals.
Keywords: Lidar; Inversion; Airborne measurements

Yanzhi Chen, Anthony Dick, Xi Li, Anton van den Hengel, Spatially aware feature selection and weighting for object retrieval, Image and Vision Computing, Volume 31, Issue 12, December 2013, Pages 935-948, ISSN 0262-8856, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.imavis.2013.09.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0262885613001467)
Abstract: Abstract
Many recent image retrieval methods are based on the “bag-of-words” (BoW) model with some additional spatial consistency checking. This paper proposes a more accurate similarity measurement that takes into account spatial layout of visual words in an offline manner. The similarity measurement is embedded in the standard pipeline of the BoW model, and improves two features of the model: i) latent visual words are added to a query based on spatial co-occurrence, to improve query recall; and ii) weights of reliable visual words are increased to improve the precision. The combination of these methods leads to a more accurate measurement of image similarity. This is similar in concept to the combination of query expansion and spatial verification, but does not require query time processing, which is too expensive to apply to full list of ranked results. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method on three public datasets.
Keywords: Object retrieval; Bag-of-words; Spatial expansion; Visual word re-weighting

Wei-Lun Lin, Yunn-Wen Lien, Exploration of the relationships between retrieval-induced forgetting effects with open-ended versus closed-ended creative problem solving, Thinking Skills and Creativity, Volume 10, December 2013, Pages 40-49, ISSN 1871-1871, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tsc.2013.05.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1871187113000254)
Abstract: Abstract
Reduced cognitive inhibition has been proposed to be a characteristic of creative individuals that allows them to attend to wide-ranging information and fosters remote associations. However, empirical findings regarding the relationship between cognitive inhibition and creativity remain inconclusive. The present study applies a selective attention paradigm on internal stimuli to assess cognitive inhibition. The study also differentiates open-ended and closed-ended creative problem solving as distinct indices to measure creative potentials. How cognitive inhibition correlates with different creativity measures is then explored. Experiment 1 recruited participants who performed well on the Chinese version of the Creative Thinking Test (an open-ended, divergent thinking test) and Wason's 2-4-6 problem (a closed-ended, creative problem-solving task) to perform the retrieval-induced-forgetting (RIF) task. Compared to controls, divergent thinkers showed no RIF effects while creative problem solvers did. Experiment 2 inspected individual performance on the three tasks. The results showed that, while participants with lower inhibition performed better on the divergent thinking test, performance on the creative problem-solving task was not related to RIF. Indices of divergent thinking significantly and negatively predicted extent of cognitive inhibition. These results suggest that reduced cognitive inhibition might not be a general mechanism for different kinds of creativity.
Keywords: Cognitive inhibition; Retrieval-induced-forgetting; Divergent thinking; 2-4-6 problem solving

Shun Qin, Xinqi Hu, Qiong Qin, Compressed sensing phase retrieval with phase diversity, Optics Communications, Volume 310, 1 January 2014, Pages 193-198, ISSN 0030-4018, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2013.08.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030401813007232)
Abstract: Abstract
The compressed sensing (CS) theory shows that sparse signal can be reconstructed accurately with some randomly observed measurements that are much fewer than what traditional method requires. Since it takes structure of signals into consideration, it has many advantages in the structured signals process. With CS, measuring can be speeded up and the cost of hardware can be decreased significantly. However, it faces great challenge in the amplitude-only measurement. In this article, we study the magnitude-only compressed sensing phase retrieval (CSPR) problem, and propose a practical recovery algorithm. In our algorithm, we introduce the powerful Hybrid-Input–Output algorithm with phase diversity to make our algorithm robust and efficient. A relaxed ℓ 0 norm constrain is also introduced to help PR find a sparse solution with fewer measurements, which is demonstrated to be essential and effective to CSPR. We finally successfully apply it into complex-valued object recovery in THz imaging. The numerical results show that the proposed algorithm can recover the object pretty well with fewer measurements than what PR traditionally requires.
Keywords: Compressed sensing; Phase retrieval; Phase diversity; Complex object; HIO algorithm; ℓ 0 norm constrain

Jun Wu, Hong Shen, Yi-Dong Li, Zhi-Bo Xiao, Ming-Yu Lu, Chun-Li Wang, Learning a hybrid similarity measure for image retrieval, Pattern Recognition, Volume 46, Issue 11, November 2013, Pages 2927-2939, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2013.04.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320313001787)
Abstract: Abstract
Learning similarity measure from relevance feedback has become a promising way to enhance the image retrieval performance. Existing approaches mainly focus on taking short-term learning experience to identify a visual similarity measure within a single query session, or applying long-term learning methodology to infer a semantic similarity measure crossing multiple query sessions. However, there is still a big room to elevate the retrieval effectiveness, because little is known in taking the relationship between visual similarity and semantic similarity into account. In this paper, we propose a novel hybrid similarity learning scheme to preserve both visual and semantic resemblance by integrating short-term with long-term learning processes. Concretely, the proposed scheme first learns a semantic similarity from the users' query log, and then, taking this as prior knowledge, learns a visual similarity from a mixture of labeled and unlabeled images. In particular, unlabeled images are exploited for the relevant and irrelevant classes differently and the visual similarity is learned incrementally. Finally, a hybrid similarity measure is produced by fusing the visual and semantic similarities in a nonlinear way for image ranking. An empirical study shows that using hybrid similarity measure for image retrieval is beneficial, and the proposed algorithm achieves better performance than some existing approaches.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Relevance feedback; Hybrid similarity measure; Short-term learning; Long-term learning

Tadashi Inui, Chizuko Inui-Yamamoto, Yoshichika Yoshioka, Izumi Ohzawa, Tsuyoshi Shimura, Activation of efferents from the basolateral amygdala during the retrieval of conditioned taste aversion, Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, Volume 106, November 2013, Pages 210-220, ISSN 1074-7427, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nlm.2013.09.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1074742713001809)
Abstract: Abstract
The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is critical in the retrieval of conditioned taste aversion (CTA). Although BLA neurons have axonal connections with several brain regions, it is unclear which efferent pathways are functional in CTA. The present study investigated the involvement of efferents from BLA in CTA retrieval with manganese (Mn2+)-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MEMRI). Rats receiving intraoral saccharin infusion paired with intraperitoneal administration of lithium chloride (LiCl) were presented with saccharin (C-S and BC-S groups) or water (C-W group) on the test day. The BC-S group was administered with LiCl 15 min before saccharin presentation on the conditioning day (backward conditioning, BC). Another two groups were injected with saline (S-S and S-W groups) instead of LiCl. On the test day, 50 nL of 40-mM manganese chloride (MnCl2) was injected into BLA before the intraoral fluid infusion. Using MRI, we analyzed Mn2+ movements, which indicated the activation of efferent neurons. The C-S group showed the highest activities in several efferents from BLA. Of them, the activities of the efferents to the nucleus accumbens core (NAcC), the anterior part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (aBNST), and the central amygdala (CeA) were larger in the C-S group than in the Q group, which was presented with a normally aversive quinine solution. Although rats equivalently rejected conditioned aversive saccharin and quinine, the aversive responses in the C-S group, and not the Q group, were due to CTA retrieval. Therefore, our results indicated that BLA efferents to NAcC, aBNST, and CeA were specifically activated during CTA retrieval, suggesting that these efferents are key components in the neural mechanisms of CTA.
Keywords: Conditioned taste aversion; Retrieval; Basolateral amygdala; Nucleus accumbens; Bed nucleus of the stria terminalis; Central amygdala

William J. Meurer, Bradley E. Barth, Gary Gaddis, Gary M. Vilke, Samuel H.F. Lam, Rapid Systematic Review: Intra-Arterial Thrombectomy (“Clot Retrieval”) for Selected Patients with Acute Ischemic Stroke, The Journal of Emergency Medicine, Volume 52, Issue 2, February 2017, Pages 255-261, ISSN 0736-4679, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jemermed.2016.10.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0736467916308794)
Abstract: AbstractBackground
Acute ischemic stroke (AIS) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality. However, precisely defining the optimal treatment for individual patients early after AIS onset remains elusive. There has recently been a surge in published studies documenting the effectiveness of mechanical intra-arterial thrombectomy for treatment of a subset of patients with AIS. This therapy has been proposed and studied for the small (&lt;1.2%) subgroup of patients with ischemic strokes who have “large vessel” strokes or strokes that fail to improve after the administration of tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA). The current rapid systematic review provides practicing emergency physicians updated information regarding mechanical thrombectomy as a treatment option for carefully selected AIS patients.
Methods
A PubMed literature search was conducted from January 1996 to June 2016 and limited to human clinical trials written in English with relevant keywords. High-quality randomized controlled studies identified then underwent a structured review.
Results
In total, 179 papers fulfilling the search criteria were screened and 8 appropriate articles were rigorously reviewed in detail and recommendations given on the effectiveness and indication of mechanical intra-arterial thrombectomy for the treatment of AIS.
Conclusions
Mechanical intra-arterial thrombectomy reduces long-term disability in a properly selected subset of patients who have an AIS caused by large vessel occlusion. Many of these patients will have failed to improve after intravenous administration of t-PA, and mortality is not increased when combined with t-PA. Careful screening criteria should be in place to identify the limited subset of patients to whom this therapy is delivered to derive optimal treatment benefits.
Keywords: acute ischemic stroke; mechanical intra-arterial thrombectomy; rapid review

D. Besiris, E. Zigouris, Dictionary-based color image retrieval using multiset theory, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 24, Issue 7, October 2013, Pages 1155-1167, ISSN 1047-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2013.07.009.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047320313001417)
Abstract: Abstract
Dictionaries have recently attracted a great deal of interest as a new powerful representation scheme that can describe the visual content of an image. Most existing approaches nevertheless, neglect dictionary statistics. In this work, we explore the linguistic and statistical properties of dictionaries in an image retrieval task, representing the dictionary as a multiset. This is extracted by means of the LZW data compressor which encodes the visual patterns of an image. For this reason the image is first quantized and then transformed into a 1D string of characters. Based on the multiset notion we also introduce the Normalized Multiset Distance (NMD), as a new dictionary-based dissimilarity measure which enables the user to retrieve images with similar content to a given query. Experimental results demonstrate a significant improvement in retrieval performance compared to related dictionary-based techniques or to several other image indexing methods that utilize classical low-level image features.
Keywords: Color image retrieval; Data compression; Dictionary; Kolmogorov complexity; Multiset theory; Similarity metric; Normalized Multiset Distance; Image compression

J.R. Banks, H.E. Brindley, C. Flamant, M.J. Garay, N.C. Hsu, O.V. Kalashnikova, L. Klüser, A.M. Sayer, Intercomparison of satellite dust retrieval products over the west African Sahara during the Fennec campaign in June 2011, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 136, September 2013, Pages 99-116, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2013.05.003.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425713001478)
Abstract: Abstract
Four aerosol optical depth retrieval algorithms over the Sahara Desert during June 2011 from the IASI, MISR, MODIS, and SEVIRI satellite instruments are compared against each other in order to understand the strengths and weaknesses of each retrieval approach. Particular attention is paid to the effects of meteorological conditions, land surface properties, and the magnitude of the dust loading. The period of study corresponds to the time of the first Fennec intensive measurement campaign, which provides new ground-based and aircraft measurements of the dust characteristics and loading. Validation using ground-based AERONET sunphotometer data indicates that of the satellite products, the SEVIRI retrieval is most able to retrieve dust during optically thick dust events, whereas IASI and MODIS perform better at low dust loadings. This may significantly affect observations of dust emission and the mean dust climatology. MISR and MODIS are least sensitive to variations in meteorological conditions, while SEVIRI tends to overestimate the aerosol optical depth (AOD) under moist conditions (with a bias against AERONET of 0.31), especially at low dust loadings where the AOD &lt; 1. Further comparisons are made with airborne LIDAR measurements taken during the Fennec campaign, which provide further evidence for the inferences made from the AERONET comparisons. The effect of surface properties on the retrievals is also investigated. Over elevated surfaces IASI retrieves AODs which are most consistent with AERONET observations, while the AODs retrieved by MODIS tend to be biased low. In contrast, over the least emissive surfaces IASI significantly underestimates the AOD (with a bias of − 0.41), while MISR and SEVIRI show closest agreement.
Keywords: Remote sensing of dust; Satellite retrieval intercomparisons; Aerosol optical depth; Fennec

Eunsang Cho, Chun-Hsu Su, Dongryeol Ryu, Hyunglok Kim, Minha Choi, Does AMSR2 produce better soil moisture retrievals than AMSR-E over Australia?, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 188, January 2017, Pages 95-105, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2016.10.050.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S003442571630428X)
Abstract: Abstract
The Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer 2 (AMSR2), a follow-up microwave sensor to the AMSR for Earth Observing System (AMSR-E), was launched on the Global Change Observation Mission 1 – Water (GCOM-W1) satellite in May 2012. It is as yet unclear if instrumental improvements in AMSR2 over AMSR-E have led to better soil moisture (SM) estimates, especially since there is no overlapping period of data between the sensors. This study focuses on comparing the results of AMSR2 and AMSR-E SM over Australia, distinguishing four Köppen climate zones to determine if AMSR2 is better than AMSR-E. This is achieved by selecting two year-long comparative time periods from the operating periods of AMSR-E and AMSR2, based on their statistical similarities in modeled SM as a proxy, using Modern Era Retrospective-analysis for Research and Applications-Land (MERRA-L). The AMSR2 and AMSR-E C- and X-band SM derived from the Land Parameter Retrieval Model (LPRM) was evaluated. Both AMSR2 C- and X-band SM products were found to show similar temporal patterns and spatial agreement with AMSR-E C- and X-band SM, supported by unbiased root mean square difference (ubRMSD) and R-values with MERRA-L SM, respectively. Using lag-based instrumental variable analysis to estimate the random error component of SM retrievals, the noise-to-signal ratios in AMSR2 X-band SM were found to be slightly higher than their AMSR-E counterparts. The improvements in AMSR2, such as the superior radiometric sensitivity and spatial resolution, have therefore not led to statistically significant differences in performance for LPRM retrievals at 1/2° × 1/2° grid resolution, when compared with AMSR-E. However, similarities in the metrics for AMSR2 and AMSR-E SM suggest that AMSR2 provides a valuable continuation to AMSR-E.
Keywords: Remotely sensed soil moisture; Microwave sensor; AMSR2; AMSR-E; MERRA-L; Evaluation; Error estimation

Dan Zhang, Fei Wang, Zhenwei Shi, Changshui Zhang, Interactive localized content based image retrieval with multiple-instance active learning, Pattern Recognition, Volume 43, Issue 2, February 2010, Pages 478-484, ISSN 0031-3203, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2009.03.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031320309000892)
Abstract: In this paper, we propose two general multiple-instance active learning (MIAL) methods, multiple-instance active learning with a simple margin strategy (S-MIAL) and multiple-instance active learning with fisher information (F-MIAL), and apply them to the active learning in localized content based image retrieval (LCBIR). S-MIAL considers the most ambiguous picture as the most valuable one, while F-MIAL utilizes the fisher information and analyzes the value of the unlabeled pictures by assigning different labels to them. In experiments, we will show their superior performances in LCBIR tasks.
Keywords: Multiple-instance active learning; Fisher information; Simple margin; Interactive localized content based image retrieval

Han Wang, Wei Liang, Xinxiao Wu, Peng Teng, Scene image retrieval via re-ranking semantic and packed dense interestpoints, Neurocomputing, Volume 119, 7 November 2013, Pages 65-73, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2012.06.048.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231213000180)
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel method for scene image retrieval in which the semantic meaning of an image and a new low-level feature are combined. The fluid nature of scene images makes learning semantics essential in our retrieval task. Compared to a general image, a scene image contains large regions of low contrast, which makes it difficult for a method to extract features that has good coverage of the entire image and assurance of relatively high repeatability. Given a scene image as a query, a collection of images is first retrieved by some search engines based on the images' semantic meanings. The candidate images are re-ranked by adapting an asymmetric piece-to-image matching scheme based on their visual similarities with the query image, using its visual signature consists of some packed dense interest points. Our method is evaluated on an Outdoor Scene Recognition (OSR) dataset and an NUS-WIDE dataset. It has demonstrated the improvements of our method over other conventional approaches.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Scene image; Attribute; Packed dense interest points

Ming-Feng Tsai, Hsin-Hsi Chen, Yu-Ting Wang, Learning a merge model for multilingual information retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 47, Issue 5, September 2011, Pages 635-646, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2009.12.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457309001411)
Abstract: This paper proposes a learning approach for the merging process in multilingual information retrieval (MLIR). To conduct the learning approach, we present a number of features that may influence the MLIR merging process. These features are mainly extracted from three levels: query, document, and translation. After the feature extraction, we then use the FRank ranking algorithm to construct a merge model. To the best of our knowledge, this practice is the first attempt to use a learning-based ranking algorithm to construct a merge model for MLIR merging. In our experiments, three test collections for the task of crosslingual information retrieval (CLIR) in NTCIR3, 4, and 5 are employed to assess the performance of our proposed method. Moreover, several merging methods are also carried out for a comparison, including traditional merging methods, the 2-step merging strategy, and the merging method based on logistic regression. The experimental results show that our proposed method can significantly improve merging quality on two different types of datasets. In addition to the effectiveness, through the merge model generated by FRank, our method can further identify key factors that influence the merging process. This information might provide us more insight and understanding into MLIR merging.
Keywords: Learning to merge; Merge model; MLIR

Zara M. Bergström, Michael C. Anderson, Marie Buda, Jon S. Simons, Alan Richardson-Klavehn, Intentional retrieval suppression can conceal guilty knowledge in ERP memory detection tests, Biological Psychology, Volume 94, Issue 1, September 2013, Pages 1-11, ISSN 0301-0511, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsycho.2013.04.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301051113001154)
Abstract: Abstract
Brain-activity markers of guilty knowledge have been promoted as accurate and reliable measures for establishing criminal culpability. Tests based on these markers interpret the presence or absence of memory-related neural activity as diagnostic of whether or not incriminating information is stored in a suspect's brain. This conclusion critically relies on the untested assumption that reminders of a crime uncontrollably elicit memory-related brain activity. However, recent research indicates that, in some circumstances, humans can control whether they remember a previous experience by intentionally suppressing retrieval. We examined whether people could use retrieval suppression to conceal neural evidence of incriminating memories as indexed by Event-Related Potentials (ERPs). When people were motivated to suppress crime retrieval, their memory-related ERP effects were significantly decreased, allowing guilty individuals to evade detection. Our findings indicate that brain measures of guilty knowledge may be under criminals’ intentional control and place limits on their use in legal settings.
Keywords: Episodic retrieval; Event-Related Potentials; Memory suppression; Guilty knowledge; Cognitive control

Subrahmanyam Murala, Q.M. Jonathan Wu, Local ternary co-occurrence patterns: A new feature descriptor for MRI and CT image retrieval, Neurocomputing, Volume 119, 7 November 2013, Pages 399-412, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2013.03.018.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231213004517)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a novel feature extraction algorithm called local ternary co-occurrence patterns (LTCoP) for biomedical image retrieval. The LTCoP encodes the co-occurrence of similar ternary edges which are calculated based on the gray values of center pixel and its surrounding neighbors. Whereas the standard local derivative pattern (LDP) encodes the co-occurrence between the first-order derivatives in a specific direction. The existing LDP is a specific direction rotational variant feature where as our method is rotational invariant. In addition, the effectiveness of our algorithm is confirmed by combining it with the Gabor transform. To prove the effectiveness of our algorithm, three experiments have been carried out on three different biomedical image databases. Out of which two are meant for computer tomography (CT) and one for magnetic resonance (MR) image retrieval. It is further mentioned that the database considered for three experiments are OASIS−MRI database, NEMA−CT database and VIA/I–ELCAP database which includes region of interest CT images. The results after being investigated show a significant improvement in terms of their evaluation measures as compared to LBP, LTP, local tetra patterns (LTrP) and LDP with and without Gabor transform.
Keywords: Local ternary patterns (LTP); Local derivative patterns (LDP); Local binary patterns (LBP); Image retrieval; Medical imaging

Haiyan Fu, Xiangwei Kong, Jiayin Lu, Large-scale image retrieval based on boosting iterative quantization hashing with query-adaptive reranking, Neurocomputing, Volume 122, 25 December 2013, Pages 480-489, ISSN 0925-2312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2013.05.033.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231213005973)
Abstract: Abstract
Image hashing based Approximate Nearest Neighbor (ANN) searching has drawn more and more attention in large-scale image dataset applications. It is still challenging to learn hashing codes to achieve good search performance. In this paper, we propose an image retrieval method based on boosting iterative quantization hashing method with query-adaptive reranking. Firstly, in boosting iterative quantization hashing embedding, we adopt boosting-based method to generate inputs to learn hashing functions. Then we optimize the hashing functions with a loss function by considering the relationship between samples. Once the hashing codes are generated, Query-Adaptive Reranking (QAR) method is proposed to learn bit-level weights for each category and query-adaptive weights for each hashing bit. In this way, the discrete Hamming distance value can be continuous, and many irrelevant returned images can be sorted to the back. We conduct experiments on three public datasets, and comparison results with six state-of-the-art methods to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Keywords: Large-scale retrieval; Image hashing; Boosting iterative quantization hashing; Query-adaptive reranking

David G. Streets, Timothy Canty, Gregory R. Carmichael, Benjamin de Foy, Russell R. Dickerson, Bryan N. Duncan, David P. Edwards, John A. Haynes, Daven K. Henze, Marc R. Houyoux, Daniel J. Jacob, Nickolay A. Krotkov, Lok N. Lamsal, Yang Liu, Zifeng Lu, Randall V. Martin, Gabriele G. Pfister, Robert W. Pinder, Ross J. Salawitch, Kevin J. Wecht, Emissions estimation from satellite retrievals: A review of current capability, Atmospheric Environment, Volume 77, October 2013, Pages 1011-1042, ISSN 1352-2310, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2013.05.051.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1352231013004007)
Abstract: Abstract
Since the mid-1990s a new generation of Earth-observing satellites has been able to detect tropospheric air pollution at increasingly high spatial and temporal resolution. Most primary emitted species can be measured by one or more of the instruments. This review article addresses the question of how well we can relate the satellite measurements to quantification of primary emissions and what advances are needed to improve the usability of the measurements by U.S. air quality managers. Built on a comprehensive literature review and comprising input by both satellite experts and emission inventory specialists, the review identifies several targets that seem promising: large point sources of NOx and SO2, species that are difficult to measure by other means (NH3 and CH4, for example), area sources that cannot easily be quantified by traditional bottom-up methods (such as unconventional oil and gas extraction, shipping, biomass burning, and biogenic sources), and the temporal variation of emissions (seasonal, diurnal, episodic). Techniques that enhance the usefulness of current retrievals (data assimilation, oversampling, multi-species retrievals, improved vertical profiles, etc.) are discussed. Finally, we point out the value of having new geostationary satellites like GEO-CAPE and TEMPO over North America that could provide measurements at high spatial (few km) and temporal (hourly) resolution.
Keywords: Satellite retrievals; Emission inventories; Air quality management; Data assimilation; National Emission Inventory

J.D. Lumpe, S.M. Bailey, J.N. Carstens, C.E. Randall, D.W. Rusch, G.E. Thomas, K. Nielsen, C. Jeppesen, W.E. McClintock, A.W. Merkel, L. Riesberg, B. Templeman, G. Baumgarten, J.M. Russell III, Retrieval of polar mesospheric cloud properties from CIPS: Algorithm description, error analysis and cloud detection sensitivity, Journal of Atmospheric and Solar-Terrestrial Physics, Volume 104, November 2013, Pages 167-196, ISSN 1364-6826, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jastp.2013.06.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364682613001831)
Abstract: Abstract
The Cloud Imaging and Particle Size (CIPS) instrument has been in operation on the NASA Aeronomy of Ice in the Mesosphere (AIM) satellite since May 2007. CIPS is a multi-camera UV imager that makes unprecedented hemispheric-scale measurements of polar mesospheric clouds (PMC). The primary CIPS data products are cloud frequency, albedo, mean particle radius, ice water content and vertical column particle density. These quantities are retrieved at 25 km2 resolution at latitudes between ~55° and 84° over a range of local times in the summer hemisphere. CIPS has obtained data for six Northern Hemisphere and five Southern Hemisphere PMC seasons to date and is still in operation and performing flawlessly. The CIPS data are made available to the scientific community in a variety of formats and spatial and temporal resolution, including full-resolution single-orbit level 2 data files and images, daily (hemispheric) albedo maps and images, and full-season latitude-binned summary files. In this paper we describe the CIPS measurement strategy and sampling characteristics, calibration and the Version 4.20 processing algorithms and retrievals. We also provide a quantitative evaluation of the CIPS cloud detection sensitivity and estimated random and systematic errors of the V4.20 cloud data products.
Keywords: Polar mesospheric clouds; Retrieval algorithm; Remote sensing; Error analysis

Arnaud Boutin, Stefan Panzer, Yannick Blandin, Retrieval practice in motor learning, Human Movement Science, Volume 32, Issue 6, December 2013, Pages 1201-1213, ISSN 0167-9457, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.humov.2012.10.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167945712001200)
Abstract: In this study we sought to determine whether testing promotes the generalization of motor skills during the process of encoding and/or consolidation. We used a dynamic arm movement task that required participants to reproduce a spatial-temporal pattern of elbow extensions and flexions with their dominant right arm. Generalization of motor learning was tested by the ability to transfer the original pattern (extrinsic transformation) or the mirrored pattern (intrinsic transformation) to the unpractised left arm. To investigate the testing effects during both encoding and consolidation processing, participants were administered an initial testing session during early practice before being evaluated on a post-practice testing session administered either 10 min (Testing-Encoding group) or 24 hr apart (Testing-Consolidation group), respectively. Control groups were required to perform a post-practice testing session administered after either a 10-min (Control-Encoding group) or 24-hr delay (Control-Consolidation group). The findings revealed that testing produced rapid, within-practice skill improvements, yielding better effector transfer at the 10-min testing for the Testing-Encoding group on both extrinsic and intrinsic transformation tests when compared with the Control-Encoding group. Furthermore, we found better performance for the Testing-Consolidation group at the 24-hr testing for extrinsic and intrinsic transformations of the movement pattern when compared with the Control-Consolidation group. However, our results did not indicate any significant testing advantage on the latent, between-session development of the motor skill representation (i.e., from the 10-min to the 24-hr testing). The testing benefits expressed at the 10-min testing were stabilised but did not extend during the period of consolidation. This indicates that testing contributes to the generalisation of motor skills during encoding but not consolidation.
Keywords: Retrieval practice; Testing; Encoding; Consolidation; Effector transfer; Motor learning

Ahmet F. Mustacoglu, Geoffrey C. Fox, A novel digital information service for federating distributed digital entities, Information Systems, Volume 55, January 2016, Pages 20-36, ISSN 0306-4379, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2015.07.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306437915001350)
Abstract: Abstract
We investigate the performance and the scalability metrics of a Digital Information Service framework that is used for unifying and federating online digital entities by retrieving and managing information located on the web. The Digital Information Service consists of tools and web services for supporting Cyberinfrastructure based scientific research. This system supports a number of existing online Web 2.0 research tools (social bookmarking, academic search, scientific databases, journal and conference content management systems) and aims to develop added-value community building tools that leverage the management and federation of digital entities and their metadata obtained from multiple services. We introduce a prototype implementation and present its evaluation. As the results indicate, the proposed system achieves federation and unification of digital entities coming from different sources with negligible processing overheads.
Keywords: Web services and Service-Oriented computing; SOA; Web 2.0; Data management; Information retrieval and management; Federation and unifications

Ben He, Jimmy Xiangji Huang, Xiaofeng Zhou, Modeling term proximity for probabilistic information retrieval models, Information Sciences, Volume 181, Issue 14, 15 July 2011, Pages 3017-3031, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2011.03.007.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025511001356)
Abstract: Proximity among query terms has been found to be useful for improving retrieval performance. However, its application to classical probabilistic information retrieval models, such as Okapi’s BM25, remains a challenging research problem. In this paper, we propose to improve the classical BM25 model by utilizing the term proximity evidence. Four novel methods, namely a window-based N-gram Counting method, Survival Analysis over different statistics, including the Poisson process, an exponential distribution and an empirical function, are proposed to model the proximity between query terms. Through extensive experiments on standard TREC collections, our proposed proximity-based BM25 model, called BM25P, is compared to strong state-of-the-art evaluation baselines, including the original unigram BM25 model, the Markov Random Field model, and the positional language model. According to the experimental results, the window-based N-gram Counting method, and Survival Analysis over an exponential distribution are the most effective among all four proposed methods, which lead to marked improvement over the baselines. This shows that the use of term proximity considerably enhances the retrieval effectiveness of the classical probabilistic models. It is therefore recommended to deploy a term proximity component in retrieval systems that employ probabilistic models.
Keywords: Proximity; Probabilistic models; BM25

Rui Hu, John Collomosse, A performance evaluation of gradient field HOG descriptor for sketch based image retrieval, Computer Vision and Image Understanding, Volume 117, Issue 7, July 2013, Pages 790-806, ISSN 1077-3142, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cviu.2013.02.005.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1077314213000349)
Abstract: Abstract
We present an image retrieval system for the interactive search of photo collections using free-hand sketches depicting shape. We describe Gradient Field HOG (GF-HOG); an adapted form of the HOG descriptor suitable for Sketch Based Image Retrieval (SBIR). We incorporate GF-HOG into a Bag of Visual Words (BoVW) retrieval framework, and demonstrate how this combination may be harnessed both for robust SBIR, and for localizing sketched objects within an image. We evaluate over a large Flickr sourced dataset comprising 33 shape categories, using queries from 10 non-expert sketchers. We compare GF-HOG against state-of-the-art descriptors with common distance measures and language models for image retrieval, and explore how affine deformation of the sketch impacts search performance. GF-HOG is shown to consistently outperform retrieval versus SIFT, multi-resolution HOG, Self Similarity, Shape Context and Structure Tensor. Further, we incorporate semantic keywords into our GF-HOG system to enable the use of annotated sketches for image search. A novel graph-based measure of semantic similarity is proposed and two applications explored: semantic sketch based image retrieval and a semantic photo montage.
Keywords: Sketch based image retrieval; Bag-of-visual-words; Image descriptors; Matching

Liu Liu, Jian-Xun Li, Integrating color into the local features based on the stable color invariant regions for image retrieval, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 124, Issue 17, September 2013, Pages 2577-2582, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2012.07.010.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402612005797)
Abstract: The local features of the objects are widely used in image matching and retrieval. The popular algorithms of the local feature detection are designed for gray images, which failed to make use of the color information in color images. However, the color information is absolutely nontrivial in the discrimination of different objects, vacancy of which would lead to miss-judgment. Although, some color invariants include a lot of color information, the local feature information has not been involved in the color invariants. The simple and efficient method to enhance the performance of the descriptors is to combine color with the local features. Generalized color moment and SIFT are chosen to make this combination in this paper. Because the calculation of the generalized color moment invariants is based on the regions in color image, the stable color invariant regions are first extracted through analyzing the reflection model of the object in the color image. Then, color and local features are fused to establish the framework of image retrieval based on color invariant regions. The robustness of our algorithm is strengthened and the time-consumption in matching is reduced compared to other algorithms.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Local feature; Shadow–shading invariant; Image matching; Color invariants

Hideo Joho, Adam Jatowt, Roi Blanco, Temporal information searching behaviour and strategies, Information Processing & Management, Volume 51, Issue 6, November 2015, Pages 834-850, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2015.03.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457315000448)
Abstract: Abstract
Temporal aspects have been receiving a great deal of interest in Information Retrieval and related fields. Although previous studies have proposed, designed and implemented temporal-aware systems and solutions, understanding of people’s temporal information searching behaviour is still limited. This paper reports the findings of a user study that explored temporal information searching behaviour and strategies in a laboratory setting. Information needs were grouped into three temporal classes (Past, Recency, and Future) to systematically study their characteristics. The main findings of our experiment are as follows. (1) It is intuitive for people to augment topical keywords with temporal expressions such as history, recent, or future as a tactic of temporal search. (2) However, such queries produce mixed results and the success of query reformulations appears to depend on topics to a large extent. (3) Search engine interfaces should detect temporal information needs to trigger the display of temporal search options. (4) Finding a relevant Wikipedia page or similar summary page is a popular starting point of past information needs. (5) Current search engines do a good job for information needs related to recent events, but more work is needed for past and future tasks. (6) Participants found it most difficult to find future information. Searching for domain experts was a key tactic in Future search, and file types of relevant documents are different from other temporal classes. Overall, the comparison of search across temporal classes indicated that Future search was the most difficult and the least successful followed by the search for the Past and then for Recency information. This paper discusses the implications of these findings on the design of future temporal IR systems.
Keywords: Temporal information retrieval; Information searching behaviour; Search strategies; User study

Konstantinos Zagoris, Kavallieratou Ergina, Nikos Papamarkos, A Document Image Retrieval System, Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, Volume 23, Issue 6, September 2010, Pages 872-879, ISSN 0952-1976, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2010.03.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197610000771)
Abstract: In this paper, a system is presented that locates words in document image archives. This technique performs the word matching directly in the document images bypassing character recognition and using word images as queries. First, it makes use of document image processing techniques, in order to extract powerful features for the description of the word images. The features used for the comparison are capable of capturing the general shape of the query, and escape details due to noise or different fonts. In order to demonstrate the effectiveness of our system, we used a collection of noisy documents and we compared our results with those of a commercial optical character recognition (OCR) package.
Keywords: Document retrieval; Word spotting; Segmentation; Information retrieval; Feature extraction

M. Romero, A. Moreo, J.L. Castro, A cloud of FAQ: A highly-precise FAQ retrieval system for the Web 2.0, Knowledge-Based Systems, Volume 49, September 2013, Pages 81-96, ISSN 0950-7051, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2013.04.019.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705113001391)
Abstract: Abstract
FAQ (Frequency Asked Questions) lists have attracted increasing attention for companies and organizations. There is thus a need for high-precision and fast methods able to manage large FAQ collections. In this context, we present a FAQ retrieval system as part of a FAQ exploiting project. Following the growing trend towards Web 2.0, we aim to provide users with mechanisms to navigate through the domain of knowledge and to facilitate both learning and searching, beyond classic FAQ retrieval algorithms. To this purpose, our system involves two different modules: an efficient and precise FAQ retrieval module and, a tag cloud generation module designed to help users to complete the comprehension of the retrieved information. Empirical results evidence the validity of our approach with respect to a number of state-of-the-art algorithms in terms of the most popular metrics in the field.
Keywords: FAQ retrieval; WordNet; Wikipedia concepts; Natural language; Tag cloud

Federica Pardini, Mike Burton, Mattia de' Michieli Vitturi, Stefano Corradini, Giuseppe Salerno, Luca Merucci, Giuseppe Di Grazia, Retrieval and intercomparison of volcanic SO2 injection height and eruption time from satellite maps and ground-based observations, Journal of Volcanology and Geothermal Research, Volume 331, 1 February 2017, Pages 79-91, ISSN 0377-0273, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvolgeores.2016.12.008.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S037702731630244X)
Abstract: Abstract
Syneruptive gas flux time series can, in principle, be retrieved from satellite maps of SO2 collected during and immediately after volcanic eruptions, and used to gain insights into the volcanic processes which drive the volcanic activity. Determination of the age and height of volcanic plumes are key prerequisites for such calculations. However, these parameters are challenging to constrain using satellite-based techniques. Here, we use imagery from OMI and GOME-2 satellite sensors and a novel numerical procedure based on back-trajectory analysis to calculate plume height as a function of position at the satellite measurement time together with plume injection height and time at a volcanic vent location. We applied this new procedure to three Etna eruptions (12 August 2011, 18 March 2012 and 12 April 2013) and compared our results with independent satellite and ground-based estimations. We also compare our injection height time-series with measurements of volcanic tremor, which reflects the eruption intensity, showing a good match between these two datasets. Our results are a milestone in progressing towards reliable determination of gas flux data from satellite-derived SO2 maps during volcanic eruptions, which would be of great value for operational management of explosive eruptions.
Keywords: Volcanic SO2; Trajectory modelling; Remote sensing; Volcanic tremor

Henrique Salmazo-Silva, Maria Alice de Mattos Pimenta Parente, Maria Sheila Rocha, Roberta Roque Baradel, André M. Cravo, João Ricardo Sato, Fabio Godinho, Maria Teresa Carthery-Goulart, Lexical-retrieval and semantic memory in Parkinson’s disease: The question of noun and verb dissociation, Brain and Language, Volume 165, February 2017, Pages 10-20, ISSN 0093-934X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bandl.2016.10.006.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0093934X15301565)
Abstract: Abstract
The dissociation between the processing of verbs and nouns has been debated in light of the Embodied Cognition Theory (EC). The objective of this paper is to verify how action and verb processing deficits of PD patients are modulated by different tasks with different cognitive demands. Action and object lexical-semantic processing was evaluated in patients with Parkinson’s Disease (PD) and cognitively healthy controls through three different tasks (verbal fluency, naming and semantic association). Compared to controls, PD patients presented worse performance in naming actions and in the two semantic association tasks (action/object). Action verbal fluency performance was significantly associated with PD severity whereas object semantic association deficits and noun verbal fluency scores were associated to lower scores in measures of global cognitive functioning. Our data suggest that semantic deficits are related to the type of cognitive processing and this is in the line with more flexible EC accounts.
Keywords: Verbs; Actions; Semantics; Parkinson disease; Embodied Cognition

Bae-Muu Chang, Hung-Hsu Tsai, Wen-Ling Chou, Using visual features to design a content-based image retrieval method optimized by particle swarm optimization algorithm, Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, Volume 26, Issue 10, November 2013, Pages 2372-2382, ISSN 0952-1976, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2013.07.018.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197613001462)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper presents a content-based image retrieval method using three kinds of visual features and 12 distance measurements, which is optimized by particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm. For convenience, it is called the CBIRVP method hereafter. First, the CBIRVP method extracts three kinds of features: color, texture, and shape features of images. Subsequently, it employs appropriate distance measurements for each kind of features to calculate the similarities between a query image and others in the database D. Also, the PSO algorithm is utilized to optimize the CBIRVP method via searching for nearly optimal combinations between the features and their corresponding similarity measurements, as well as finding out the approximately optimal weights for three similarities with respect to three kinds of features. Finally, experimental results demonstrate that the CBIRVP method outperforms other existing methods under consideration here.
Keywords: Content-based image retrieval; Particle swarm optimization; Visual features; Similarities; Weights

Ivan Sipiran, Benjamin Bustos, Tobias Schreck, Data-aware 3D partitioning for generic shape retrieval, Computers & Graphics, Volume 37, Issue 5, August 2013, Pages 460-472, ISSN 0097-8493, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cag.2013.04.002.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0097849313000484)
Abstract: Abstract
In this paper, we present a new approach for generic 3D shape retrieval based on a mesh partitioning scheme. Our method combines a mesh global description and mesh partition descriptions to represent a 3D shape. The partitioning is useful because it helps us to extract additional information in a more local sense. Thus, part descriptions can mitigate the semantic gap imposed by global description methods. We propose to find spatial agglomerations of local features to generate mesh partitions. Hence, the definition of a distance function is stated as an optimization problem to find the best match between two shape representations. We show that mesh partitions are representative and therefore it helps to improve the effectiveness in retrieval tasks. We present exhaustive experimentation using the SHREC'09 Generic Shape Retrieval Benchmark.
Keywords: Mesh partitioning; Optimization matching; Shape retrieval

Simon Jones, Ling Shao, Content-based retrieval of human actions from realistic video databases, Information Sciences, Volume 236, 1 July 2013, Pages 56-65, ISSN 0020-0255, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2013.02.018.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025513001357)
Abstract: Due to the increasing amount of video data available in various databases, on the Internet and elsewhere, new methods of managing these data are required, leading to the development of content-based video retrieval systems. We explore several recently developed action representation and information retrieval techniques in a human action retrieval system. These techniques include various means of local feature extraction; soft-assignment clustering; Bag-of-Words, vocabulary guided and spatio-temporal pyramid matches for action representation; SVMs and ABRS-SVMs for relevance feedback. Successful application of relevance feedback in particular will result in far more practical systems. We evaluate the performance of several combinations of the above techniques in three realistic action datasets: UCF Sports, UCF YouTube and HOHA2.
Keywords: Content-based video retrieval; Relevance feedback; Human action recognition

Enamul Hoque, Orland Hoeber, Minglun Gong, CIDER: Concept-based image diversification, exploration, and retrieval, Information Processing & Management, Volume 49, Issue 5, September 2013, Pages 1122-1138, ISSN 0306-4573, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2012.12.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457312001392)
Abstract: Abstract
Many of the approaches to image retrieval on the Web have their basis in text retrieval. However, when searchers are asked to describe their image needs, the resulting query is often short and potentially ambiguous. The solution we propose is to perform automatic query expansion using Wikipedia as the source knowledge base, resulting in a diversification of the search results. The outcome is a broad range of images that represent the various possible interpretations of the query. In order to assist the searcher in finding images that match their specific intentions for the query, we have developed an image organization method that uses both the conceptual information associated with each image, and the visual features extracted from the images. This, coupled with a hierarchical organization of the concepts, provides an interactive interface that takes advantage of the searchers’ abilities to recognize relevant concepts, filter and focus the search results based on these concepts, and visually identify relevant images while navigating within the image space. In this paper, we outline the key features of our image retrieval system (CIDER), and present the results of a preliminary user evaluation. The results of this study illustrate the potential benefits that CIDER can provide for searchers conducting image retrieval tasks.
Keywords: Image retrieval; Query expansion; Diversification; Image organization; Interaction; User evaluations

Luis Guanter, Micol Rossini, Roberto Colombo, Michele Meroni, Christian Frankenberg, Jung-Eun Lee, Joanna Joiner, Using field spectroscopy to assess the potential of statistical approaches for the retrieval of sun-induced chlorophyll fluorescence from ground and space, Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 133, 15 June 2013, Pages 52-61, ISSN 0034-4257, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2013.01.017.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425713000357)
Abstract: Abstract
Sun-induced chlorophyll fluorescence (Fs) is an electromagnetic signal emitted in the 650–800 nm spectral window by the chlorophyll-a of green leaves. Previous studies demonstrated the retrieval of Fs on a global scale using high spectral resolution measurements by the Fourier Transform Spectrometer (FTS) on board the greenhouse gases observing satellite (GOSAT). The retrieval of Fs from GOSAT-FTS data is based on the modeling of the in-filling of solar Fraunhofer lines by Fs. The first Fs retrieval methods for GOSAT-FTS measurements were based on physical formulations of the radiative transfer between the atmosphere, the surface and the instrument including the Fs emission. As an alternative, a statistical method was also successfully applied to GOSAT data. This method is based on a singular vector decomposition (SVD) technique producing a basis of spectral functions able to model the contribution of the reflected solar radiation to the top-of-atmosphere measurement in a linear way. The Fs signal is included in the forward model as an extra parameter adding to the reflected solar radiation. Here, we use field spectroscopy measurements to provide further experimental evidence on the retrieval of Fs with statistical approaches in both Fraunhofer lines and atmospheric oxygen and water vapor bands. The statistical retrieval method used with GOSAT-FTS data has been adapted to a set of ground-based spectro-radiometer measurements in the 717–780 nm range. Retrieval results in the 745–759 nm window, which contains only Fraunhofer lines, support the overall approach of estimating Fs from space measurements in that spectral window. Furthermore, the application of the method to broader fitting windows including both Fraunhofer lines and and (oxygen and water vapor) atmospheric bands atmospheric bands has been proven to be very effective to reduce the retrieval noise and has also shown a good comparison with reference O2A-based retrievals. This allows consideration of statistical methods as a powerful option for Fs retrieval from broad-band space-based measurements in the near-infrared.
Keywords: Fluorescence retrieval; Fraunhofer-line approach; GOSAT-FTS; Singular vector decomposition; O2A-band

Xiaoqin Zhou, Wencai Wang, Jieqiong Lin, Harmonic retrieval of regenerative machining chatter responses, Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, Volume 41, Issues 1–2, December 2013, Pages 679-690, ISSN 0888-3270, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymssp.2013.08.021.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0888327013004329)
Abstract: Abstract
Based on cross fourth-order cumulants, a total least square ESPRIT approach to jointly estimating harmonic parameters in hybrid colored noises is presented, which is applied to investigate the harmonic retrieval of regenerative machining chatter responses. Taking into consideration the multiple-regenerative effect, the delayed machining dynamics under the excitation of stochastic noises is modeled, and a recursive algorithm of the solution to the delayed machining dynamics is proposed. The harmonic parameter estimation of regenerative chatter responses is detailed, which include the harmonic frequencies, cross powers, and phase shifts between successive cuts. The results demonstrate that the presented harmonic parameter estimation approach can eliminate the hybrid colored noises, retrieve the harmonic parameters with excellent estimation performance, and extract the evolution features of regenerative machining chatter.
Keywords: Machine tool; Regenerative chatter; Harmonic retrieval; Cross high-order cumulants; Multiple-frequency machining chatter

Yusuke Hattori, Akihiro Tsuji, Takeshi Ogo, Jin Ueda, Shigefumi Fukui, Satoshi Yasuda, Successful catheter intervention for deep vein thrombosis due to inferior vena cava stenosis after retrieval of a temporary inferior vena cava filter, Journal of Cardiology Cases, Volume 15, Issue 1, January 2017, Pages 22-24, ISSN 1878-5409, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jccase.2016.09.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1878540916300640)
Abstract: Abstract
Inferior vena cava (IVC) stenosis is a well-known complication of the IVC filter. However, there are no previous reports of IVC stenosis caused by a temporary IVC filter. In this case report, we describe the case of a 35-year-old man who was referred to our center for the treatment of recurrent proximal deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and severe IVC stenosis that occurred after retrieval of a temporary IVC filter. We performed a catheter-directed thrombolysis and balloon angioplasty. DVT resolved effectively, and his leg symptoms resolved.

&lt;Learning objective: Although IVC filter-related stenosis is not common, it should be managed, even when a temporary IVC filter is used. The combination of catheter-directed thrombolysis and balloon angioplasty may be considered for a proximal deep vein thrombosis complicated with IVC stenosis.&gt;
Keywords: Inferior vena cava stenosis; Temporary inferior vena cava filter; Catheter-directed thrombolysis

Yangxi Li, Chao Zhou, Bo Geng, Chao Xu, Hong Liu, A comprehensive study on learning to rank for content-based image retrieval, Signal Processing, Volume 93, Issue 6, June 2013, Pages 1426-1434, ISSN 0165-1684, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2012.06.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165168412002034)
Abstract: Recently, various learning to rank approaches have been proposed in the information retrieval realm, with their promising performance in general document and web page retrieval applications. Based on these achievements, in this paper, we investigate and discuss whether learning to rank approaches can be adapted to content-based image retrieval (CBIR). Given the complex structure of image representation, it is also challenging how to design visual features for learning to rank algorithms that not only scale up well, but also model various visual modalities and the spatial distributions of local features. We answer this question by introducing some scalable visual-based ranking features for learning to rank. Specifically, we firstly adopt several well performed ad hoc ranking models to generate the bag-of-visual-words-based ranking features. Besides, images are divided into different salient regions and spatial blocks, respectively, and ranking features are extracted from each region and block. Finally, image global features-based similarities are also concatenated with the existing ranking features. Extensive experiments with three state-of-the-art learning to rank algorithms are performed over four popular image retrieval databases, together with some insightful conclusions to facilitate the adaptation of learning to rank approaches to CBIR.
Keywords: Learning to rank; Content-based image retrieval

Jie Wu, Jiabi Chen, A phase retrieval algorithm for X-ray phase contrast imaging, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 124, Issue 9, May 2013, Pages 864-866, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2012.02.030.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402612001635)
Abstract: Based on the transport-of-intensity equation and the Fourier transform, a rapid phase retrieval algorithm for X-ray phase contrast imaging is described in detail. This algorithm is a non-iterative phase retrieval method, and it has a potential speed for large scale X-ray phase contrast images. Then the numerical simulation is made to evaluate the rapid phase retrieval algorithm performance. Finally, a real fiber material experiment is carried out using a micro focus X-ray phase contrast imaging experiment platform, and the phase distribution image is calculated out by this algorithm. The result shows that this phase retrieval algorithm is effective and optional to practical application.
Keywords: Phase retrieval; Fourier transform; X-ray; Image intensity

Giuliano Pasqualotto, Pietro Zanuttigh, Guido M. Cortelazzo, Combining color and shape descriptors for 3D model retrieval, Signal Processing: Image Communication, Volume 28, Issue 6, July 2013, Pages 608-623, ISSN 0923-5965, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.image.2013.01.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092359651300012X)
Abstract: Nowadays many three dimensional models feature color information together with the shape description. However current content-based retrieval schemes for 3D models are based on shape information only and ignore color clues. The significance of shape vs. color clues for 3D model retrieval is instead a fundamental issue still almost unexplored at this time. A possible approach is to extend shape-based 3D model retrieval methods of proven effectiveness in order to include color. This work follows such rationale and introduces an extended version of the spin-image descriptor that can account also for color data. The comparison of color descriptors is performed using a novel scheme that allows to recognize as similar also objects with different colors but with the same color distribution over the shape. Shape and color similarity are finally combined together by an algorithm based on fuzzy logic. Experimental results show how the joint use of color and shape data allows to obtain better results than each of the two types of information alone. Comparisons with state-of-the-art content-based retrieval methods for 3D models also show how the proposed scheme outperforms standard solutions on object classes with meaningful color information.
Keywords: Content-based retrieval; Spin-images; Color; Fuzzy logic; 3D models

Miguel Arevalillo-Herráez, Francesc J. Ferri, Salvador Moreno-Picot, A hybrid multi-objective optimization algorithm for content based image retrieval, Applied Soft Computing, Volume 13, Issue 11, November 2013, Pages 4358-4369, ISSN 1568-4946, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2013.06.016.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494613002056)
Abstract: Abstract
Relevance feedback methods in CBIR (Content Based Image Retrieval) iteratively use relevance information from the user to search the space for other relevant samples. As several regions of interest may be scattered through the space, an effective search algorithm should balance the exploration of the space to find new potential regions of interest and the exploitation of areas around samples which are known relevant. However, many algorithms concentrate the search on areas which are close to the images that the user has marked as relevant, according to a distance function in the (possibly deformed) multidimensional feature space. This maximizes the number of relevant images retrieved at the first iterations, but limits the discovery of new regions of interest and may leave unexplored a large section of the space. In this paper, we propose a novel hybrid approach that uses a scattered search algorithm based on NSGA II (Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm) only at the first iteration of the relevance feedback process, and then switches to an exploitation algorithm. The combined approach has been tested on three databases and in combination with several other methods. When the hybrid method does not produce better results from the first iteration, it soon catches up and improves both precision and recall.
Keywords: CBIR; Image retrieval; Relevance feedback; NSGA-II; multi-objective

Thomas M. Schilling, Monika Kölsch, Mauro F. Larra, Carina M. Zech, Terry D. Blumenthal, Christian Frings, Hartmut Schächinger, For whom the bell (curve) tolls: Cortisol rapidly affects memory retrieval by an inverted U-shaped dose–response relationship, Psychoneuroendocrinology, Volume 38, Issue 9, September 2013, Pages 1565-1572, ISSN 0306-4530, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psyneuen.2013.01.001.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030645301300005X)
Abstract: Summary
Stress and cortisol are generally considered to impair declarative memory retrieval, although opposite results have also been reported. Dose-dependent effects and differences between genomic and non-genomic cortisol effects are possible reasons for these discrepancies. The aim of the current experiment was to assess the non-genomic effects of escalating doses of intravenous cortisol on cued recall of socially relevant information in humans. 40 participants (age range 20–30 years; 20 females) learned associations between male faces with a neutral facial expression and descriptions of either positive or negative social behaviors and were tested one week later in a cued recall paradigm. Escalating doses of cortisol (0, 3, 6, 12, 24 mg) were administered 8 min before testing according to a between-subjects design. An inverted U-shaped dose–response relationship between salivary cortisol levels and recall performance was observed, with moderate elevation of salivary cortisol resulting in the best recall performance. This is the first study in humans demonstrating that cortisol rapidly modulates declarative memory retrieval via a dose-dependent, non-genomic mechanism that follows an inverted U-shaped curve. Our result further emphasizes the importance of fast cortisol effects for human cognition.
Keywords: Cortisol; Non-genomic effects; Dose–response design; Inverted U-shape; Declarative memory retrieval; Humans

Francesca Pagnanelli, Emanuela Moscardini, Pietro Altimari, Thomas Abo Atia, Luigi Toro, Leaching of electrodic powders from lithium ion batteries: Optimization of operating conditions and effect of physical pretreatment for waste fraction retrieval, Waste Management, Volume 60, February 2017, Pages 706-715, ISSN 0956-053X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wasman.2016.11.037.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0956053X16307322)
Abstract: Abstract
Experimental results of leaching tests using waste fractions obtained by mechanical pretreatment of lithium ion batteries (LIB) were reported. Two physical pretreatments were performed at pilot scale in order to recover electrodic powders: the first including crushing, milling, and sieving and the second granulation, and sieving. Recovery yield of electrodic powder was significantly influenced by the type of pretreatment. About 50% of initial LIB wastes was recovered by the first treatment (as electrodic powder with size &lt;0.5 mm, Sample 1), while only 37% of powder with size &lt;1 mm (Sample 2) can be recovered by the second treatment. Chemical digestion put in evidence the heterogeneity of recovered powders denoting different amounts of Co, Mn, and Ni. Leaching tests of both powders were performed in order to determine optimized conditions for metal extraction. Solid/liquid ratios and sulfuric acid concentrations were changed according to factorial designs at constant temperature (80 °C). Optimized conditions for quantitative extraction (&gt;99%) of Co and Li from Sample 1 are 1/10 g/mL as solid/liquid ratio and +50% stoichiometric excess of acid (1.1 M). Using the same solid/liquid ratio, +100% acid excess (1.2 M) is necessary to extract 96% of Co and 86% of Li from Sample 2. Best conditions for leaching of Sample 2 using glucose are +200% acid excess (1.7 M) and 0.05 M glucose concentration. Optimized conditions found in this work are among the most effective reported in the literature in term of Co extraction and reagent consumption.
Keywords: Li ion batteries; Mechanical pretreatment; Leaching; Glucose

Hao Ding, Benjamin F. Chao, Solid pole tide in global GPS and superconducting gravimeter observations: Signal retrieval and inference for mantle anelasticity, Earth and Planetary Science Letters, Volume 459, 1 February 2017, Pages 244-251, ISSN 0012-821X, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsl.2016.11.039.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0012821X16306732)
Abstract: Abstract
The mantle anelasticity plays an important role in Earth's interior dynamics. Here we seek to determine the lower-mantle anelasticity through the solution of the complex Love numbers at the Chandler wobble period. The Love numbers h 21 , l 21 , δ 21 and k 21 are obtained in the frequency domain by dividing off the observed polar motion, or more specifically the pole tide potential, from the observed GPS 3-D displacement field and SG gravity variation. The latter signals are obtained through the array processing method of OSE (optimal sequence estimation) that results in greatly enhanced signals to be extracted from global array data. The resultant Love number estimates h 21 = 0.6248 ( ± 5 e − 4 ) − 0.013 ( ± 5 e − 3 ) i , l 21 = 0.0904 ( ± 8 e − 4 ) − 0.0008 ( ± 2 e − 3 ) i , δ 21 = 1.156 ( ± 2 e − 3 ) − 0.003 ( ± 1 e − 3 ) i and k 21 = 0.3125 ( ± 2 e − 3 ) − 0.0069 ( ± 3 e − 3 ) i are thus well-constrained in comparison to past estimates that vary considerably. They further lead to estimates of the corresponding mantle anelastic parameters f r and f i , which in turn determines, under the single-absorption band assumption, the dispersion exponent of α = 0.21 ± 0.02 with respect to the reference frequency of 5 mHz. We believe our estimate is robust and hence can better constrain the mantle anelasticity and attenuation models of the Earth interior.
Keywords: pole tide; Love numbers; lower-mantle anelasticity; GPS; superconducting gravimeter; optimal sequence estimation

Israel López-Plata, Christopher Expósito-Izquierdo, Eduardo Lalla-Ruiz, Belén Melián-Batista, J. Marcos Moreno-Vega, Minimizing the Waiting Times of block retrieval operations in stacking facilities, Computers & Industrial Engineering, Volume 103, January 2017, Pages 70-84, ISSN 0360-8352, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2016.11.015.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360835216304314)
Abstract: Abstract
This paper addresses the Blocks Relocation Problem with Waiting Times. Its objective is to retrieve a set of homogeneous blocks from a two-dimensional storage by minimizing the waiting times during their retrieval. An integer programming model and a heuristic algorithm are developed to solve this optimization problem. The mathematical model is able to solve small-size cases to optimality in reasonable computational times. Unfortunately, it requires large computational times when tackling medium and large-size scenarios. For its part, the heuristic algorithm overcomes the problems associated with the computational burden of the model by bringing forward the availability of blocks to retrieve from the storage. With this goal in mind, several look ahead strategies dedicated to perform the most promising predictive block relocation movements are proposed. The computational results disclose the proposed heuristic algorithm is able to report high-quality solutions through very short computational times, less than one second, in practical cases.
Keywords: Blocks Relocation Problem with Waiting Times; Stacking crane; Optimization model; Heuristic

Qu Wang, Qing Guo, Liang Lei, Asymmetric multiple-image hiding using phase retrieval technique based on amplitude- and phase-truncation in fractional Fourier domain, Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, Volume 124, Issue 19, October 2013, Pages 3898-3902, ISSN 0030-4026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2012.12.018.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0030402612009473)
Abstract: We propose a multiple-image hiding scheme based on the amplitude- and phase-truncation approach, and phase retrieval iterative algorithm in the fractional Fourier domain. The proposed scheme offers multiple levels of security with asymmetric keys. Multiple input images multiplied with random phase masks are independently fractional Fourier transformed with different orders. The individual keys and common keys are generated by using phase and amplitude truncation of fractional spectrum. After using two fractional Fourier transform, the resultant encrypted image is hided in a host image with phase retrieval iterative algorithm. Using the correct universal keys, individual keys, and fractional orders, one can recover the original image successfully. Computer simulation results with four gray-scale images support the proposed method. To measure the validity of the scheme, we calculated the mean square error between the original and the decrypted images. In this scheme, the encryption process and generation of decryption keys are complicated and should be realized using computer. For decryption, an optoelectronic setup has been suggested.
Keywords: Image hiding; Phase retrieval iterative algorithm; Fractional Fourier transform

Gloria Bordogna, Gabriella Pasi, A quality driven Hierarchical Data Divisive Soft Clustering for information retrieval, Knowledge-Based Systems, Volume 26, February 2012, Pages 9-19, ISSN 0950-7051, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2011.06.012.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705111001274)
Abstract: In this paper an adaptive hierarchical fuzzy clustering algorithm is presented, named Hierarchical Data Divisive Soft Clustering (H2D-SC). The main novelty of the proposed algorithm is that it is a quality driven algorithm, since it dynamically evaluates a multi-dimensional quality measure of the clusters to drive the generation of the soft hierarchy. Specifically, it generates a hierarchy in which each node is split into a variable number of sub-nodes, determined by an innovative quality assessment of soft clusters, based on the evaluation of multiple dimensions such as the cluster’s cohesion, its cardinality, its mass, and its fuzziness, as well as the partition’s entropy. Clusters at the same hierarchical level share a minimum quality value: clusters in the lower levels of the hierarchy have a higher quality; this way more specific clusters (lower level clusters) have a higher quality than more general clusters (upper level clusters). Further, since the algorithm generates a soft partition, a document can belong to several sub-clusters with distinct membership degrees. The proposed algorithm is divisive, and it is based on a combination of a modified bisecting K-Means algorithm with a flat soft clustering algorithm used to partition each node. The paper describes the algorithm and its evaluation on two standard collections.
Keywords: Soft Hierarchical Clustering; Fuzzy C-Means; Cluster’s quality; Document clustering; Quality measures

Lei Shi, Rossitza Setchi, Ontology-based personalised retrieval in support of reminiscence, Knowledge-Based Systems, Volume 45, June 2013, Pages 47-61, ISSN 0950-7051, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2013.02.004.
(http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705113000567)
Abstract: Abstract
This research proposes a knowledge-based framework for integrating ontology-based personalised retrieval and reminiscence support. The aim is to assist people in recalling, browsing and re-discovering events from their lives by considering their profiles and background knowledge and providing them with customised information retrieval. To model a user’s background knowledge, this paper defines a user profile space (UPS) model and describes its construction method. The model has a dynamic structure based on relevance feedback and interactions with users. Furthermore, this work introduces a multi-ontology query expansion model which uses user-oriented ontologies, UPSs and semantic feature-selection algorithms to expand queries. In this model, knowledge-spanning trees are generated from ontology/UPS graphs based on the queries. These knowledge-spanning trees contain semantic features which enhance the representations of the original queries and further facilitate personalised retrieval on a semantic basis. The experimental results indicate that the proposed approach consistently outperforms term-based retrieval on precision, recall and f-score, which proves the positive effect of using ontology/user profile spaces in query expansion and personalised retrieval.
Keywords: Ontology graph; User profile space; Knowledge spanning tree; Feature selection; Personalised retrieval; Reminiscence support

